# COMBINED PDF DOCUMENTS



==================================================
DOCUMENT: EDLHLGA23009V012223.pdf
==================================================

--- DOCUMENT TEXT ---

Well Baby Well Mother - Add On Wordings  
Add On Wordings - Well Baby Well Mother  
Base  Product UIN: EDLHLGP21462V032021  
Add On UIN:  EDLHLGA23009V012223  
Edelweiss General  Insurance  Company  Limited , 
Corporate Office: 5th Floor, Tower 3, Kohinoor City Mall, Kohinoor City, Kirol Road, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070, Registered Office:  
Edelweiss House, Off CST Road, Kalina, Mumbai -400 098, IRDAI Regn. No.: 159, CIN: U66000MH2016PLC273758, Reach us on: 1800  
12000,  Email: support@edelweis sinsurance.com,  Website:  www.edelweissinsurance.com,  Issuing/Corporate  Office:  +91 22 4272  2200,  
Grievance  Redressal  Officer: +91  22 4931  4422,  Dedicated  Toll-Free Number  for Grievance: 1800  120 216216.  Trade  logo displayed  above  
belongs to Edelweiss Financial Services Limited and is used by Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited under license. Ins urance is  
the subject  matter of  solicitation.   
  
 
Air Ambulance Cover  
 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, We  will cover the expenses incurred on air 
ambulance services in respect of an Insured Person which are offered by a healthcare or an air 
ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy Period to transfer the Insured 
Person to  a Hospit al or transfer from one hospital to another with adequate emergency facilities for the 
provision of Emergency Care, provided that:  
i. Our maximum liability under this Benefit for any and all claims arising during the Policy 
Year will be restricted to the Sum  insured as stated in the Policy Schedule;  
ii. The maximum distance of travel undertaken is 150 kms. In case of distance travelled is 
more than 150 kms, proportionate amount of expenses upto 150 kms shall be payable.  
 
Example: If insured has travelled a distan ce of 300kms using an air ambulance we will pay 
50% of the total cost or Sum Insured whichever is lower. (Eligibility/Actual distance travelled 
: 150kms/300kms = 0.5)  
 
iii. It is for a life threatening emergency health condition/s of the Insured Person which re quires 
immediate and rapid ambulance transportation from the place where the Insured Person is 
situated at the time of requiring Emergency Care to a hospital provided that the 
transportation is for Medically Necessary Treatment, is certified in writing by a Medical 
Practitioner, and road ambulance services cannot be provided.  
iv. Such air ambulance providing the services, should be duly licensed to operate as such by a 
competent government Authority.  
v. This cover is limited to transportation from the area of emergency to a  Hospital providing 
emergency care which is not available at  the place of origin and from one medical centre to 
another. ;  
We will not cover:  
a. Transfer of the Insured Person from one medical facility to another medical facility of 
similar capabilities which provides a similar level of care.  
b. Any transportation of the Insured Person from Hospital to the Insured Person’s 
residence after he/she has been discharged from the Hospital  
c. Any transportation or air ambulance expenses incurred outside the geographical scope 
of India.  
d. Attempt at suicide  
e. Injuries resulting from participation in acts of war or insurrection  
f. commission of unlawful acts  
g. Incidents involving use of drugs unless prescribed by a medical practitioner  
h. We have accepted a claim under Section II.A.1 in respect of the Insured Person for  the 
same Accident/Illness for which air ambulance services were availed.  
i. We shall not be liable if Medically Necessary Treatment can be provided at the Hospital 
where the Insured Person is situated at the time of requiring Emergency Care.  
Claims towards Air Ambulance expenses will be payable by mode of Reimbursement only  
 
Well Baby Well Mother - Add On Wordings  
Add On Wordings - Well Baby Well Mother  
Base  Product UIN: EDLHLGP21462V032021  
Add On UIN:  EDLHLGA23009V012223  
Edelweiss General  Insurance  Company  Limited , 
Corporate Office: 5th Floor, Tower 3, Kohinoor City Mall, Kohinoor City, Kirol Road, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070, Registered Office:  
Edelweiss House, Off CST Road, Kalina, Mumbai -400 098, IRDAI Regn. No.: 159, CIN: U66000MH2016PLC273758, Reach us on: 1800  
12000,  Email: support@edelweis sinsurance.com,  Website:  www.edelweissinsurance.com,  Issuing/Corporate  Office:  +91 22 4272  2200,  
Grievance  Redressal  Officer: +91  22 4931  4422,  Dedicated  Toll-Free Number  for Grievance: 1800  120 216216.  Trade  logo displayed  above  
belongs to Edelweiss Financial Services Limited and is used by Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited under license. Ins urance is  
the subject  matter of  solicitation.   
 Well mother Cover  
Covers routine medical care provided to an insured female  (expectant mother s and mothers who have 
delivered  new born baby ), which includes routin e preventive care serv ices and immunizations (within the 
maternity hospitalization period) , during the period as opted by insured  and specified in the policy 
schedule  
• Routine Medical Care would include expenses recommended by a doctor and incurred on – 
Pharmacy, Diagnostics, Doctor Consultations and Therapy.  
• Routine Preventive Care Services will include expenses recommended by a doctor and incurred 
on – Pharmacy and Diagnostic Tests . 
The insured shall have option to opt for thi s cover for any one of the below ment ioned period : 
i) At the onset  of pregnancy and up to pre-hospitalization period for maternity . 
ii)  At the onset of pregnancy and  maternity hospitalization (only routine preventi ve care services and 
immunizat ions)  up to first discharge  from hospital.  
iii) At the onset of pregnancy , maternity hospitalization (only routine preventive care services and 
immunizations) and  until 30 days following birth of new born baby . 
We will not cover  
1. Any infertility treatments  
2. Any charges payable under the maternity section  (if opted  as an optional cover ) of the policy  
  
Healthy baby expenses / well baby care expenses  
Cover for expenses incurred for a New born baby after the birth until first discharge  from hospital .  
Covers routine medical care provided to a new born  baby, which includes limited to appropriate customary 
examinations required to assess the integrity and basic functions of child’s organs and skeletal structure 
carried out immediately following birth, routine preventive care services and immunizations (w ithin the 
hospitalization period).  
The sum insured limit shall be as opted fo r and specified in the policy schedule.  For multiple born babies  
sum insured shall be  subject to limit in place . 
Routine Preventive Care Services will include expenses recommende d by a doctor and incurred on – 
Pharmacy and Diagnostic Tests.  
 
 


--- DOCUMENT TABLES ---



==================================================
DOCUMENT: CHOTGDP23004V012223.pdf
==================================================

--- DOCUMENT TEXT ---

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 1 of 101 
 
  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 2 of 101 
 
 
We issue this Group insurance policy to the Proposer based on the information provided by the Proposer in the 
proposal form and premium paid by the Proposer. This insurance is subject to the following terms and conditions. 
The method of coverage and the Be nefit Limits that has been opted is indicated in the Policy Schedule/ Policy 
Certificate . The term You/Your/Insured/ Insured Person  in this document refers to the individual group members 
who will be treated as Insured beneficiary and the term Proposer/Policy Holder/Group Manager/Group Organizer  
in this document refers to Person/ Organisation who has signed the proposal form and in whose name the policy is 
issued.  Also the term Insurer /Us/Our/ Company  in this document refers to Cholamandalam MS General Insurance 
Company  Limited.  
 
Master policy will be issued in the name of Group Manager and individual certificate may be issued to the 
beneficiaries.  
 
1. DEFINITIONS  
Any word or expression to which a specific meaning has been assigned in any part of th is Policy or the Schedule/ 
Certificate shall bear the same meaning wherever it appears in the Policy, including any subsequent 
endorsements to this Policy and the Policy Schedule/Certificate. Where the context permits, references to the 
singular shall also  include references to the plural, similarly references to the male gender shall also include 
references to the female gender, and vice versa in both cases.  
 
For purposes of this Policy, the terms specified below shall have the meaning set forth:  
A) STANDARD DEFINITONS  
Accident / Accidental mean a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent 
means.  
Cashless facility means a facility extended by the Insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs of treatment 
undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider 
by the Insurer to the extent pre -authorization is approved.  
Condition  Precedent  means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s  liability under the policy is 
conditional upon.  
Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, which is abnormal with  reference to form, 
structure or position.  
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible  and accessible parts of the 
body.  
b. External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly  which is in the visible and accessible parts of the 
body.  
Deductible means a cost -sharing requirement under this policy, that provides that the Insurer will not be liable 
for a specified amount or percentage of claim amount and/or number of days and/or number of hours as 
specified in the policy schedule/certificate of insurance which will apply before any benefits are payable by 
the Insurer. A deductible does not reduce the  Sum Insured and is applicable per event up to the specified 
limits mentioned.  
 
Disclosure to information norm means the Policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited 
to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non -disclosure of any material fact.  
Hospital  means any institution established for inpatient care and day care treatment of illness and/or injuries and 
which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments  (Registration and 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 3 of 101 
 
Regulation) Act 2010 or under the enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR 
complies with all minimum criteria as under:  
- has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;  
- has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 
in-patient beds in all other places;  
- has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;  
- has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical proce dures are carried out;  
- maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel  
 
Hospitalisation  means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive ‘In -patient Care’ hours except 
for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24consecutive hours.  
Illness  means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological 
function and requires medical t reatment.  
a. Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to 
return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/illness/injury 
which leads to full recovery.  
b. Chronic condition is defined as  a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following 
characteristics: —it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check -
ups, and / or tests —it needs ongoing or long -term contr ol or relief of symptoms — it requires rehabilitation 
for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it —it continues indefinitely —it recurs 
or is likely to recur . 
Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or dis ease, solely and directly caused by external, 
violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.  
In Patient Care  means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours for  a 
covered event.  
Maternity Expenses means  
a. medical  treatment  expenses  traceable  to childbirth (including  complicated  deliveries  and 
caesarean  sections incurred during  hospitalization)  
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy  period  
 
Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any 
prescription or follow -up prescription  
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for 
medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these 
are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured and no more than 
other hospitals or doctors in th e same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.  
Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council or appropriate 
authority of the country where Insured Person is availing emergency treatment outs ide India/ Country of 
origin and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and 
jurisdiction of license. The term Medical Practitioner includes any qualified physician, specialist, or surgeon, 
and shoul d not be an Immediate Family Member of the Insured Person or related to the Insured Person by 
way of blood, marriage, adoption, employment, or any pre -existing business relationship.  
Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, sta y in Hospital or part of a stay 
in Hospital in relation to the Insured Person which:  
i. is required  for the medical  management  of the Illness  or Injury  suffered  by the Insured Person;  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 4 of 101 
 
ii. must  not exceed  the level  of care  necessary  to provide  safe,  adequate  and appropriate  
medical  care  in scope, duration, or  intensity;  
iii. must have been prescribed by a Medical  Practitioner;  
must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical 
community in  India.  
Network Provider/ Hospital means Hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an 
Insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an i nsured by a cashless facility.  
Non - Network means  any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the network.  
 
Notification  of claim  means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the recognized 
modes of communication.  
OPD  treatment  means  is the one in which  the Insured  visits  a clinic  / hospital  or associated  facility  like consultation  
room  for diagnosis  and treatment  based  on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The insured is not admitted as a day 
care or in - patient. OPD to include emergency root canal treatment  
Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:  
a)     That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the 
Insurer or its reinstatement or  
b) For which medical advice  or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 months 
prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement . 
 
Qualiﬁed  Nurse  means  a person  who  holds  a valid  registration  from  the Nursing Council  of India  or the Nursing  
Council  of any state  in India.  
Reasonable  and Customary  Charges means  the charges  for services  or supplies, which are the standard charges for 
the speciﬁc provider and consistent with the prevailing  charges  in the geographical  area  for identical  or similar  
services,  taking into  account  the nature  of the illness  / injury  involved.  
Renewal  means  the terms  on which  the contract  of insurance  can be renewed  on mutual consent with a provision of 
grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time -
bound exclusions  and for of all waiting  periods.  
Subrogation  means  the right  of the insurer  to assume  the rights  of the insured person  to recover  expenses  paid  out 
under  the policy  that may  be recovered  from any  other  source.  
Unproven/ Experimental treatment means the treatment including drug experimental  therapy  which  is not based  
on established  medical  practice  in India, is  treatment  experimental  or unproven.  
 
B) SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS  
Air Travel means travel by an airline/aircraft for the purpose of flying therein as a Fare paying  passenger . 
Alternative Treatments means forms of treatments other than treatment "Allopathy" or "modern medicine" and 
includes Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and Hom eopathy in the Indian context.  
Appliances shall mean and include electrical, mechanical and electronic appliances used for household including 
whilst in travel use  
Adventure Sports means and includes skydiving/parachuting, parasailing, hang gliding, paragl iding, ballooning  
bungee  jumping,  scuba  diving,  mountaineering  or rock  climbing  (where ropes  or guides  are customarily  used),  Speed  
contest  or racing  of any kind,  caving or pot -holing, abseiling, hunting or equestrian activities, deep sea diving, skin 
diving  or other  underwater  activity,  polo,  snow  and ice sports,  rafting  or canoeing involving white water rapids, 
yachting or boating, , Base Jumping, Ski Jumping, Trekking, Adventure racing on land and water, Snorkeling, Kayaking, 
Surﬁng, marathon running  as a non -professional, biking, races as a non -professional, any bodily  contact  sport  or any 
other  hazardous  or potentially  dangerous  sport.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 5 of 101 
 
Assistance Service Provider means Third Party administrator or any organization or institution appointed by the 
Company, for providing services to the Insured Person for an Insured Event covered.  
 
Baggage  shall  mean  articles  and / or personal  eﬀects  of the Insured  (other  than property  of the Business)  in packing  
or in containers  suitable  and standard  to the mode  of Travel  that is accompanied  by the Insured  or whilst  such  Baggage  
is lodged either in a locked private room of a hotel or guest house or any other accommodation  occupied  by the 
Insured  during  the Insured's  stay at that location or in a public locker facility availed by the Insured during the course 
of or at any intermediate  stage  of the Travel.  
Base Sum Insured means the Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate agai nst the respective base 
covers.  
Burglary means theft involving entry  into or exit from the Insured Person’s home in India by forcible and violent means 
or following assault or violence or threat thereof, to the Insured Person or to any Immediate Family Member or any 
person residing lawfully in the Insured Person’s residenc e, with intent to commit a felony ther ein and includes 
housebreaking.  
Checked -in Baggage means each suitcase or baggage handed over by the Insured Person and accepted by a Common 
Carrier for transportation in the same Common Carrier in which the Insured Pe rson is or would be travelling, and for 
which the Common Carrier has issued a baggage receipt to the Insured Person. Checked -in Baggage excludes all items 
that are carried/ transported under  any contract of affreightment.  
Common  Carrier  means  any transport means by civilian  land,  rail, water  or Scheduled  Airline  in each  case operated  
under  a valid  license  for the transportation  of passengers  for hire.  
Contents mean and include electrical and electronic equipment, household appliances,  furniture,  ﬁxture,  ﬁttings, 
linen,  clothing,  interior  decorations,  kitchen items,  cutlery  /crockery  contained  in the Insured's  home  belonging  to the 
Insured or  his/her  family  members  permanently  residing  with  the Insured  including  items for  which  the Insured  is 
responsible,  and used  for domestic  use. However,  this does not  include  deeds,  bonds,  bills of exchange,  promissory  
notes,  cheques,  traveller's cheques, and securities for money, documents of any kind, cash, and currency notes.  
Corporate means any organization, firm, society or body corporate on whose name the policy is  issued.  
Dependent  Child  refers  to a child  (natural  or legally  adopted),  below  the age of 23 years, who is ﬁnancially dependent 
on the primary insured or proposer and does  not have  his / her independent  sources  of income.  
Disease means an alteration in the state of the body or of some of its organs interrupting or disrupting the 
performance of the functions, and causing or threatening pain and weakness or physical or mental disorder and 
certiﬁed by a Medical Practitioner.  
Family  means the Insured, his/her lawful spouse and maximum of any two dependent children up to the age of 2 5 
years, parents, parents -in laws, siblings, children’s in laws, partner  
Felonious Assault means an act of violence against the Insured Person or a Travelling Compani on requiring medical 
treatment.  
Financial Emergency means a situation where in the Insured Person loses all or a substantial amount of his/her travel 
funds due to theft, robbery, mugging or dacoity , which has detrimental e ffects on his/her travel plans.  
Group  A group should consist of persons who assemble together with a commonality of purpose or engaging in a 
common economic activity like employees of a company. It includes non -employer –employee gr oups like employee 
welfare associations, co -operative society’s, Group policies being taken by Government bodies for certain 
identifiable groups, credit/debit card/kisan credit card holders insured through the card issuance company, 
customers of a particul ar business, professional associations, borrowers/depositors of a bank, customers of a bank 
or aggregators,  or members of any similar group being administered by a group administration wherein Insurance 
is being provided as an add -on benefit.  
Hazardous Oc cupation  means persons whilst working in underground mines, explosives, magazines, workers whilst 
involved in electrical installation with high tension supply, jockeys, circus personnel, Aircraft pilots and crew, armed 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 6 of 101 
 
forces personnel, artistes engaged in  hazardous performances, aerial crop sprayer, Demolition contractor, explosives 
users, Fisherman (Seagoing, Jockey, Marine Salvager, Miner and other occupations underground, nuclear 
installations, Off -shore oil or gas rig worker, professional sports person , roofing contractors and all construction, 
maintenance and repair workers at heights in excess of 50ft/15m, saw miller, scaffolder, ship crew, steeplejack, 
stevedore, structural steelworker, tower crane operator, tree feller.  
Hijack means any unlawful seizure or exercise of control, by force or violence or threat of force or violence and with 
wrongful intent, of the Common Carrier in which th e Insured Person is travelling.  
Housebreaking  means  an act involving  physical  break -in and unauthorized  and forci ble entry into Insured Person's 
home in India, or any threat, with intent to commit  crime.  
Immediate family member shall mean any member of the Insured Person's immediate family i.e the Insured 
Person's spouse, child ren, parent s, parents in law, Children in law,  sibling , partner or travelling companion.  
Inclement Weather means any severe catastrophic weather conditions which delay the scheduled arrival or 
departure of a Common Carrier but not including normal, sea sonal/climatic weather changes.  
Insured/Ins ured Person means the person named in the Policy Schedule, who has a permanent  place  of residence  in 
India  and for whom  the insurance  is proposed  and appropriate  premium  paid. It includes foreign travelers having 
traveler visa.  
Insured Event means an event, loss or damage specifically described as covered and for which the Insured Person is 
entitled to benefit/s under this Policy.  
Land/Sea  Arrangements means pre-paid  travel  arrangements  for a scheduled tour,  trip or cruise  included  within  the 
description  of covered  Trips  on the Proposal/Enrollment  and Declaration  Form  and arranged  by a tour  operator,  travel  
agent, or  other  organization.  
Life threatening condition / situation” refers to a medical condition suﬀered by the Insured which has the following 
characteristics:  
i. Markedly  unstable  vital  parameters  (blood  pressure,  pulse,  temperature and  respiratory  rate).  
ii. Acute impairment of one or more vital organ systems (involving brain, heart,  lungs,  Liver,  Kidneys  and pancreas).  
iii. Critical care being provided, which involves high complexity decision making to assess, manipulate and support vital 
system function(s) to treat single or multiple vital organ failure(s) and requires interpretation of multiple physiological  
parameters and application of advanced technology.  
iv. Critical care being provided in critical care area such as coronary care unit, intensive care unit, respiratory care unit, 
or the emergency department.  
Loss means loss or damage.  
Man days is a 24 hours’ period starting from midnight for an individual whilst travelling within the territorial 
boundaries of India.  
Master Policy Schedule/Policy Schedule means schedule attached to and forming part of this Policy, mentioning the 
details of the Proposer / Group Manager, the Sum Insured , Period and limits to which benefits under the policy 
would be payable.  
Multi  trip means  two or more  trips  to destinations  of Republic  of India  during  the Policy  period.  
Natural  Teeth means natural  teeth  that is unaltered  or is fully  restored  to their normal  function  and is Disease -free,  
have  no decay  and are not more  susceptible  to Injury  than  unaltered  natural  teeth.  
Period of Insurance  in respect of Single Trip Policy means the period from  the commencement  date of the insurance  
cover  to the Risk end Date  as speciﬁed  in the Policy  Schedule /certificate or on the date when the insured returns to 
his/her usual town of residence or the date of cancellation of the insurance, whichever is earlier  
Period of Insurance in respect of the Multi Trip/ Annual policy shall mean the period  from  Commencement  of 
Insurance  cover  to the end of the insurance  cover or full utilization of the maximum number of travel days per trip as 
mentioned in Policy  Schedule /Certificate , or expiry  of the Policy  or cancellation  of the insurance,  whichever is  earlier . 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 7 of 101 
 
Physician  means a licensed medical practitioner acting within the scope of his license  and who  holds  a degree  of a 
recognized  institution  and is registered  by the Medical  Council  of India.  The term  Physician  would  include  specialist  and 
surgeon. Family  members  are excluded  from  the Deﬁnition  of Physician.  
 
Policy means proposal, the Schedule/Certificate, the Policy documents and any endorsements  attaching  to or 
forming  part  hereof  either  on the commencement date  or during  the Policy  Period.  
Policy Certificate means the document giving mentioning the name of the Insured  / Insured  persons,  Policy  Period,  
scope  of cover,  limits  to which  beneﬁts  are subject  to and other  relevant  terms  and conditions . 
Permanent Partial Disablement means a bodily injury caused by accidental, external, violent and visible means, 
which as a direct consequence thereof, disables  any part  of the limbs  or organs  of the body  of the insured/insured  
person and  which  falls into one of the categories  listed  in the Table  of beneﬁts.  
Permanent Total Disablement” means a bodily injury caused by accidental, external,  violent  and visible  means,  which  
as a direct  consequence  thereof  totally disables  and prevents  the insured  from  attending  to any business  or occupation  
of any  and every  kind  or if he/she  has no business  or occupation,  from  attending  to his/her usual and normal duties 
that last for a continuous period of twelve calendar  months  from  the date  of the accident,  with  no hopes  of 
improvement  at the  end of that period.  
Pre-existing Disability means an existing disability and consequence of such disability existing or known to exist at 
the commencement of the policy period.  
Professional Sportsperson means those sports persons who are in to full time sports and maintain their livelihood 
through earnings from their  involvement in sports.  
Reasonable Additional Expenses means any expenses for meals and lodging necessarily incurred by the 
Insured/Insured Person as a result of a trip delay but does  not include  meals  and lodging  provided  by the common  
carrier  or any other party  free of charge.  
Return Destination means the place to which the Insured/Insured Person is scheduled to return from his/her trip.  
Scheduled  Airline  means  any civilian  aircraft  operated  by a civilian  scheduled  air carrier holding a certiﬁcate, license or 
similar authorization for civilian scheduled air carrier transport issued by the country of the aircraft’s registry, and 
which in accordance therewith ﬂies, maintains and publishes tariﬀs for regular passenger service between named 
cities at regular and speciﬁed times, on regular or chartered  ﬂights  operated  by such  carrier.  
Schedule Railways means any Railways  operated by Indian Railways, which in accordance there with operates, 
maintains and publishes tariﬀs for regular passenger  service  between  named  cities  at regular  and speciﬁed  times,  on 
regular journey  operated  by such  carrier.  
Schedule Roadways means a roadways carrier which is operated between named  cities  under  a valid  license  issued  
by the appropriate  Indian  governmental authority for the transportation of passengers within India for a fee, and 
which maintains and publishes regular tariﬀs for regular passenger services which it operates  between  named  cities  
at regular  and speciﬁed  times  
Semiprofessional sports person shall mean those sports persons who participate in sports on frequent basis (at least 
once in a month) while being separately employed elsewhere or self -employed and whose primary source of income 
is not from sports.  
Strike means stoppage of work (a) announced, organized and sanctioned by a labour union and (b) which interferes 
with the normal departure and arrival of a common carrier inc lusive of work sl owdowns, lockouts and sickouts.  
Sum  Insured  means  the maximum  amount  of coverage,  as speciﬁed  in the Policy Schedule /certificate , that the 
Insured/Insured  Person  is entitled  to in respect  of each  beneﬁt and  as applicable  under  the Policy.  
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required  for treatment  of an illness  or 
injury,  correction  of deformities  and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suﬀering or prolongation of 
life, performed  in a hospital  or day care  center  by a medical  practitioner.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 8 of 101 
 
Terrorism/Terrorist Incident means any actual or threatened use of force or violence directed at or causing damage, 
injury, harm or disruption, or the commission  of an act dangerous  to human  life or property,  against  any individual, 
property or government, with the stated or unstated objective of pursuing economic,  ethnic,  nationalistic,  political,  
racial  or religious  interests,  whether  such interests are declared or not. Robberies or other criminal acts, primarily 
committed for personal gain and acts arising primarily from prior personal relationships between perpetrator(s) and 
victim(s) shall not be considered terrorist activity. Terror ism shall also include any act, which is veriﬁed or recognized  
by the relevant  Government  as an act of terrorism.  
 
Travel Agent means the Travel Agent, tour operator or other entity from which the Insured purchases his/her 
insurance Policy or travel arrangements, and includes  all oﬃcers,  employees  and aﬃliates  of the Travel  Agent,  tour  
operator  or other  entity.  
Travelling Companion means an individual or individuals travelling with the Insured/Insured Person, provided that, 
the Insured and such individual(s) are travelling to the same destination and on the same date and such individual(s) 
is/are also insured under this Policy. For t he purpose of this deﬁnition, any individual(s)  forming  part  of a group  
travelling  on a tour  arranged  by a Travel  Agent or a tour operator shall not be considered as Travelling Companion, 
unless the individual(s)  is/are  part  of the family  of the Insured/Insured  Person.  
Territory:  This Policy applies to incidents anywhere in India while travelling.  
 “Trip”  means  a journey  out of usual  place  of residence  in India  and back,  the details of  which  are speciﬁed  in the Policy  
Schedule /Certificate . 
 Includes  Business  and Leisure  trips  both  unless  speciﬁed  otherwise  
 Coverage for a Trip involving travel by <<Air/Rail/Road/Water>> will be as speciﬁed  in the policy  schedule /Certificate  
 which commences when the passenger boards the Common Carrier, including Private Vehicle for onward journey 
and terminates when he disembarks  on return  to Your  usual  Town  of residence  or the contracted date  whichever  
earlier  
 The insured journey also includes and covers Sojourn and/or Personal Deviation.  
 
Unattended:  A Vehicle,  premises  or personal  belongings  are unattended  if there  is no  one able  to observe  or to prevent  
interference  with  it. 
Valuables  means  photographic,  audio,  video,  computer  and any other  electronic equipment, telecommunications 
and electrical equipment, telescopes, binoculars, antiques, watches, perfumes, Jewellery, furs and articles made 
of precious  stones  and metals.  
War  means  war,  whether  declared  or not, or any warlike  activities,  including  use of military force by any sovereign 
nation to achieve economic, geographic, nationalistic,  political,  racial,  religious  or other  ends.  
 
2.  PERSONS WHO CAN BE INSURED:  
 
 This Insurance is available for persons who is an employee or member  of the Policyholder and his family 
members having a permanent place of residence in India and for whom the insurance is proposed and 
appropriate premium paid.  
 Entry age for the member should be between 03 months to 90 years (completed age).  
 
3. COVERAGE - BASE COVERS:  
 
The Policy  provides the following Base Covers. It is mandatory for the proposer/Insured  to avail the Base Cover to 
be eligible for taking this Policy from Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited. Various Base and 
Optional Covers ap plicable for the Insured  under this policy is as shown in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 9 of 101 
 
 
The Company  hereby  agrees  subject  to the terms,  conditions  and exclusions  herein contained or otherwise expressed, 
to compensate, indemnify, pay and/or reimburse in manner provided in this policy, beneﬁts to the insured for loss 
or damage described hereunder as per the coverage and up to the limit of Sum Insured  speciﬁed  in the Policy  
Schedule.  
 
Claims made under any applicable cover for the Period of Insurance  will be subject to the terms, conditions and 
exclusions of this Policy Wording, the availability of the Sum Insured  for that Cover, any applicable sub-limits  and/or 
Deduct ibles . 
 
The Insurance policy will commence from the d ate and time as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate and 
end on the date and time as printed on the Policy S chedule /Certificate , unless specified otherwise under the 
respective cover.  
 
Sl. No.  BASE COVERS  
1 Emergency Accidental Hospitalization  
2 OPD Treatment  
3 Personal Accident Covers  
a. Accidental Death  
b. Permanent Total Disability (PTD)  
c. Permanent Partial Disability (PPD)  
 
1. EMERGENCY ACCIDENTAL HOSPITALISATION:   
 
a. Coverage:  
The policy shall reimburse the Reasonable and Customary Charges for Emergency Medical Expenses incurred in the 
Republic of India by insured for immediate medical services as an In-Patient, due to any accidental injury up to the 
maximum Sum Insured amount a nd for policy period as stated in the policy schedule . The treatment shall cover 
the following.  
 
1. In-patient  treatment  in a local  hospital  at the place  where  the Insured  is staying  at the time  of the event;  
2. X-ray, diagnostic tests and all reasonable costs towards diagnostic methods  and treatment  during 
hospitalisation.  
3. Heat therapy , physiotherapy or photo  therapy  and other  such  treatment prescribed  by a Medical Practitioner  
requiring in -patient hospitalisation.  
4. If any injury during the period necessitate curative treatment beyond duration of this insurance, the Company’s 
liability to pay benefits within the scope of this Policy, under this cover shall extend automatically for a further 
period of 7 days insofar as  it can be proved that transportation home is not possible. Assistance Service Provider 
must be notified immediately as soon as it is known that Insured / Insured Person is unfit to return to home 
town / home. If any new disease / illness/injury is contrac ted beyond duration of this Policy, treatment for the 
same will not be covered.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 10 of 101 
 
 
b. Special Exclusions to Emergency Accidental Hospitalisation:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection  with  or in respect  of any 
expenses  whatsoever  incurred  by the Insured/ Insured  Person  for: 
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of 
permanent residence. The question of what  can or what  cannot  be reasonably  delayed  will be decided  
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance  with  accepted  
standards  of medical  care.  
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency  treatment  on account  of 
an insured  event.  
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical ﬂaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery 
in any form or manner unless medically  required  as part  of treatment  for accidents  and burns).  
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, 
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures,  private  duty  nursing,  respit e care,  domiciliary  care,  long - 
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency  
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences  of either  completed.  
6. Any health  check -ups or examinations  or measures  primarily  carried  out for diagnostic or investigative 
reasons for any purpose other than treatment  related  to an Accident  
7. Any exclusion  mentioned  in the 'General  Exclusions'  section  of this Policy.  
 
2. OPD EMERGENCY MEDICAL EXPENSES:   
 
a. Coverage:  
Out-patient  (OP)  treatment  in case  of an emergency  due to accidental injury  only, upto the maximum sum insured as 
mentioned on the policy schedule.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable  for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit will form part of Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions to OPD Emergency Medical Expenses:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection  with  or in respect  of any 
expenses  whatsoever  incurred  by the Insured/ Insured  Person  for: 
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of 
permanent residence. The question of what  can or what  cannot  be reasonably  delayed  will be decided  
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance  with  accepted  
standards  of medical  care.  
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency  treatment  on account  of 
an insured  event.  
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical ﬂaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery 
in any form or manner unless medically  required  as part  of treatment  for accidents  and burns).  
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, 
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures,  private  duty  nursing,  respite  care,  domiciliary  care,  long - 
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency  
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences  of either  completed.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 11 of 101 
 
6. Any health  check -ups or examinations  or measures  primarily  carried  out for diagnostic or investigative 
reasons for any purpose other than treatment  related  to an Accident  
7. Any exclusion  mentioned  in the 'General  Exclusions'  section  of this Policy.  
 
3. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVERS:  
 
a. Coverage  
The Policy shall pay  the Insured/Insured Person or his/her nominee or legal representatives, as the case may be, for 
accidental bodily injury (whilst on a trip covered by this Policy) solely and directly caused by accidental, violent, 
external and visible means resulting in A ccidental Death (AD) or Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) or Permanent 
Partial Disablement (PPD) within twelve (12) calendar months of occurrence of such injury.  
 
In case of the unfortunate accidental death of the Insured/Insured Person, the compensation s hall be paid to the 
nominee or legal representatives. The Sum Insured shall be the maximum liability of the Company under this beneﬁt.  
 
Subject to the above; the Company shall pay to the Insured/Insured Person, his/her nominee or legal 
representatives, as the case may be, the sum or the sums as set forth in the Table of Beneﬁts below:  
 
Table of Beneﬁts  Percentage  of Sum Insured  
payable  as compensation  
1. Accident Death  (AD)  100%  
2. PTD – Total and irrecoverable loss of   
i) Sight of both eyes or of the actual loss by physical separation of two entire hands or 
two entire feet or one entire hand and one entire foot or of such loss of sight of one  
eye and such  loss of one entire  hand  or one entire  foot.   
100%  
ii) Use of two hands or of two feet or of one hand and one foot  or of such  loss of sight  
of one eye and such  loss of use of  one hand  or one foot  100%  
iii) Total Paralysis  100%  
iv) Loss of all ﬁngers and both thumbs OR loss of arm – at shoulder; between shoulder 
and elbow; at and below elbow  OR loss of leg – at hip; between  knee  and hip; below 
knee   
100%  
For the purpose  of items  2 i) above,  physical  separation  of one entire hand shall mean separation at or above wrist 
and/or of the foot at or above ankle  respectively.  
3. Permanent total and absolute disablement disabling the Insured/Insured  Person  
from  engaging  in any employment or occupation of any description whatsoever which 
he or she  was capable  of doing  earlier   
100%  
4. PPD - Total and irrecoverable  loss of various parts as given below:  Percentage of Sum Insured  
The sight  of one eye or the actual  loss by physical  separation  of one  entire  hand  or one 
entire  foot.  50%  
Loss of Use of a hand or a foot without physical separation  50%  
Loss of speech  50%  
Loss of toes – all 20%  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 12 of 101 
 
Loss of toes great - both phalanges  5% 
Loss of toes great - one phalanx  2% 
Loss of toes other than great, if more than one toe lost: each  2% 
Loss of hearing - both ears  75%  
Loss of hearing - one ear  30%  
Loss of four ﬁngers and thumb of one hand  50%  
Loss of four ﬁngers of one hand  40%  
Loss of thumb - both phalanges  25%  
Loss of thumb – one phalanx  10%  
Loss of index ﬁnger – three phalanges  15%  
Loss of index ﬁnger – two phalanges  10%  
Loss of index ﬁnger - one phalanx  5% 
Loss of middle ﬁnger or ring ﬁnger or little ﬁnger – three phalanges  10%  
Loss of middle ﬁnger or ring ﬁnger or little ﬁnger – two phalanges  7% 
Loss  of middle  ﬁnger  or ring ﬁnger  or little  ﬁnger  - one phalanx  3% 
Loss of metacarpals – ﬁrst or second (additional) or third, fourth or ﬁfth (additional)  3% 
Any other permanent partial disablement  Percentage as assessed by the 
panel doctor of the Company  
 The disablement  occurs  within  one year  of accident  
 The disablement must be conﬁrmed and claimed for prior to the expiry of a period  of 3 months  since  occurrence  of the 
disablement  
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Policy, the Company shall not be liable for compensation under more 
than one of the points (1) to (4) in the Table of Beneﬁts hereinabove, in the same period of disablement of the 
Insured/Insured Person.  
 
b. Special Exclusions  applicable to Personal Accident Covers : 
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this beneﬁt  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. Any existing  physical  disability.  
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due to intake of 
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics,  hallucinogens.  
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning  except  where  these  arise  
from  an accident.  
4. Any payment  under  this beneﬁt  whereby  the Company's  liability  would exceed  the sum  payable  in the 
event  of accidental  death.  
5. Any other  claim  after  a claim  for accidental  death  has been  admitted  by the  Company  and becomes  
payable.  
6. Any claim  which  arises  out of an accident  connected  with  the operation of an aircraft  (Including  Cabin  
Crew)  or which  occurs  during  parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is ﬂying as a Fare 
Paying passenger in a multi -engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter  company.  
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement  of the Insured/Insured  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 13 of 101 
 
Person  from;  
a. intentional  self-injury,  suicide,  or attempted  suicide.  
b. whilst  under  the inﬂuence  of intoxication,  liquor  or drugs.  
c. arising  or resulting  from  the insured/insured  person  committing  any breach of law with criminal intent 
or participating in an actual or  attempted  felony,  riot,  crime,  misdemeanour  or civil commotion.  
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing, 
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand  gliding,  mountaineering  or rock  climbing,  potholing,  abseiling, 
deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless speciﬁcally covered  and duly  mentioned  in the 
Policy  Schedule.  
8. Any consequential  loss or damage  cost or expense  of whatsoever  nature.  
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly  caused by, contributed  to or aggravated  or prolonged  
by childbirth,  maternity  or pregnancy  or in consequence  thereof,  venereal  disease  or inﬁrmity.  
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured 
Person, due to or arising out of or directly conne cted with or traceable to act of terrorism or terrorist  
activities.  
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special Conditions applicable to Personal Accident Covers:  
1. In the event of partial loss or impairment of the function of one of the above parts of the body or senses, 
the appropriate proportion of the percentage as stated in the “Table of Beneﬁts” will be considered for 
payment.  
2. If the accident impairs a number of physical or mental functions, the degree of disablement given in the 
Table of Beneﬁts will be added together, but the amount payable shall not exceed 100% of the Sum 
Insured  as speciﬁed  in the Policy  Schedule.  
3. If the accident  aﬀects  parts  of the body  or senses  whose  loss or inability to function  is not dealt  with  above,  
the governing  factor  in determining the  beneﬁt  amount  in such  a case  will be the degree  to which  the 
normal physical  or mental  capabilities  are impaired,  solely  from  a medical  point of view, as ascertained by 
a Medical Practitioner or a panel of doctor of the  company  or Assistance  Service  Provider.  
4. In the event  of permanent  disablement,  the Insured/Insured  Person  will be  under  obligation:  
a. To have himself/herself examined by the Medical Practitioners appointed  by the Company/ Assistance  
Service  Provider and  the Company  will pay the costs  thereof  
b. To authorize Medical Practitioner providing treatment or giving expert  opinion  and any other  authority  
to supply  the Company  any information that may be required on the condition of the Insured/Insured  
Person.  
5. If the above  obligations  are not met with  due to whatsoever  reason,  the Company shall be relieved of its 
liability to compensate under this beneﬁt.  
6. The beneﬁt applicable under this Section shall be in addition to the beneﬁts applicable under optional 
cover -Personal Accident - Common Carrier for Accidental  Death and Permanent Total  Disability , if opted.  
 
 
4. GENERAL EXCLUSIONS:  
(Applicable to all covers under the Policy)  
 
In addition to the exclusions that are applicable for the specific covers of the Policy as mentioned in this Policy, the 
following exclusions apply to covers/benefits under all Sections of the Policy  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 14 of 101 
 
 
Without prejudice to anything contained in this Policy , the Company shall not be liable to make any payment in 
respect of:  
 
1. Any claim  relating  to events  occurring  before  the commencement  of the cover or  otherwise  outside  of the 
period  of insurance.  
2. Any Pre-existing  Condition  and / or any complication  arising  from  it 
a) This policy is not designed to provide an indemnity with respect to medical services, the need for which 
arises out of a pre -existing condition  as deﬁned  in the policy in  normal  course  of treatment. However in 
any of the threatening situation this exclusion shall not be applied and also that the cover will up to the 
limit shown under  Life threatening  condition  / situation  as deﬁned  in this policy  
3. Treatment if that is the sole reason or one of the reasons for the Insured/Insured  Person’s  temporary  stay.  
4. Any claim  if the Insured/Insured  Person:  – 
a. is travelling  against  the advice  of a Medical  Practitioner;  
b. is receiving, or is on a waiting list to receive, speciﬁed medical treatment declared in the Medical 
Practitioner's report or certiﬁcate;  
c. has received  terminal  prognosis  for a medical  condition;  
d. is taking  part  in a naval,  military  or air force  operation.  
5. Deductibles as speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule.  
6. Diseases, illness and accidents that are results of war and warlike occurrence or invasion, act s of foreign 
enemies, hostilities, civil war, rebellion, insurrection, civil commotion assuming the proportions of or 
amounting to an uprising, military or usurped power, active participation in riots, conﬁscation or 
nationalization or requisition of or de struction of or damage to property by or under the order of any 
government or local authority.  
7. Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies.  
8. Any claim resulting or arising from or any consequential loss, directly caused by or contributed to or arisin g 
from:  
a. Ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste 
from the combustion of nuclear fuel; or  
b. The radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive nuclear assembly or 
nuclear component thereof.  
9. Any claim arising out of sporting activities in so far as they involve the training or participation in 
competitions of professional or semi -professional sports persons, Adventure Sports unless declared 
beforehand and necessary a dditional premium paid  
10. No claim will be paid which arises from the insured Person engaging in Travel unless he or she travels as a 
passenger on a carrier properly licensed to carry passengers. For the purpose of this exclusion, Traveller 
means being in or on, or boarding a carrier for the purpose of travelling therein or alighting there from.  
11. Any claim arising out of diseases, illnesses or accidents that the Insured/ Insured Person has caused 
intentionally or by committing a crime or as a result of drunkenness or addiction (drugs, alcohol).  
12. Medical Expenses in respect of Experimental, investigational or unproven treatments or treatments which 
are not consistent with o r incidental to the diagnosis and treatment of the positive existence or presence of 
any Illness for which conﬁnement is required at a Hospital. Any Illness or treatment which is a result or a 
consequence of undergoing such experimental or unproven treatme nt 
13. Naturopathy treatment  
14. No claims will be paid for losses arising directly from manual work or hazardous occupation, self -exposure  
to peril or if engaging in any criminal or illegal act.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 15 of 101 
 
15. Any claim arising out of any act of terrorism which means an act, in cluding but not limited to the use of force 
or violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on 
behalf of or in connection with any organization(s) or government(s), committed for political, religious, 
ideological, or ethnic purposes or reasons including the intention to inﬂuence any government and/or to put 
the public, or any section of the public, in fear. However, this exclusion does not apply to  Optional Cover - 
Hijack Distress Allowance.  
16. Non -medical E xpenses incurred during Hospitalisation. The list of such Non -medical Expenses is placed at 
Annexure 3.  
 
5. GENERAL CONDITIONS:  
(Applicable to all covers under the Policy)  
 
I. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO THE CONTRACT:  
1. Deductible:   
The deductible in respect of this Policy will be applicable for each and every claim separately and shall be of an 
amount as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.  
Deductible will be charged for each separate incident reported for claims payment, even though the claim may be  
registered under the same benefit more than once.  
 
2. Applicability of covers :  
Of the covers i ndicated in this Policy Wording and Endorsements, coverage available to the Insured Person  will be 
indicated in the Policy Certificate  along with Sum Insured  and Deductibles . 
 
3. Type of Trips Offered:  
Policy shall be offered on Single Trip/ Annual Multi  trip basis  
 
a. Single Trip Policy :  
Policies covering single trips can be issued upto single trip not exceeding 365 days.  
 
b. Annual Multi trip Policy :  
Policies covering Annual Multi Trips can be issued for annual period of one year covering multiple single 
trips within the annual period of insurance with each and every single trip not exceeding a specified number 
of days as mentioned in the Policy Schedu le/Certificate   
 
c. One -way Travel:  
Policy is appli cable for one -way travel also, with a condition for maximum duration of coverage limited to 
specified number of days as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate  
 
The Policy start date shall be on or befor e the trip start date.  
 
4. Policy Extension :  
a. Extension of the Period of Insurance of the Policy during the duration of the trip can be done only at the sole 
discretion of the Company depending upon the risk factors.  
b. If the Insured/Insured Person does not declare the full current facts or declare wrong facts while requesting 
for extension of the Policy, any extension of such a Policy if granted shall be deemed to be invalid. No refund 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 16 of 101 
 
of premium will be given in case o f extensions so invalidated. The Company will also not be liable to pay any 
claim ﬁled under the extended Policy.  
c. The premium payable for the extension of the Policy during the trip duration shall be the premium payable 
for the overall trip duration (inclu ding the extension) less the initial premium already paid.  
d. Provi ded further that for an Insured,  the maximum trip duration (including the extension as provided earlier) 
shall not exceed 365 days in total . 
 
5. Premium Chargeable:  
The premium charged shall be  based on the number of man days insured in each  category  at the 
commencement  of the Policy  Period,  as declared  by the Insured  Person.  Depending  on the actual  number  of 
man  days  covered  in the Policy Period in each category as at the last day of such Policy period, if the premium 
calculated on the actual number of man days shall diﬀer from the premium charged at the commencement 
of the Policy, then such diﬀerence shall  be paid  to the Company  or refunded  by the Company  as the case  may  be. 
 
6. Disclosure of Information : 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis description or non -disclosure of any material fact by  the Insured/Insured Person.  
(Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the 
company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the 
context of  underwriting the risk)  
II. CONDITIONS APPLICABLE DURING THE CONTRACT  
 
7. Obligations of the Insured/ Insured Person:  
a) Insured/ Insured Person shall provide to the Company or the Assistance Service Provider appointed by the 
Company, on demand any information that is required to determine the occurrence of the insurable event  or 
the Company's  liability  to pay the beneﬁts.  
b) If requested to do so by the Company or the Assistance Service Provider  appointed  by the Company,  the 
Insured/  Insured  Person  is obliged  to undergo a medical examination by a Medical Practitioner designated by 
the Assistance Service Provider. For the purpose of settlement of claims only. The cost towards the medical 
examination shall be borne by the Company.  
c) The Company  or the Assistance  Service  Provider  appointed  by the Company is authorized to take all measures 
which includes the Insured/ Insured Person's transportation back to his/her usual place of residence in India.  
The transportation  of the Insured/  Insured  person  back  to his/her  usual place  of residence  in India  shall  be done  
only  on agreement  and conﬁrmation from the attending medical practitioner that the Insured/ Insured Person 
is capable  of being  transported  to his/her  usual  place  of residence  in India  with consent  from  Insured/Insured  
Persons.  
d) The Company  shall  be released  from  any obligation  to pay beneﬁts  under  this Policy, if any, of the 
aforementioned obligations are breached by the Insured/ Insured  Person.  
 
8. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability : 
The terms and Conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.  
 
9. Geography:  
This Policy applies to incidents anywhere in India while travelling.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 17 of 101 
 
 
10. No constructive Notice:  
Any k nowledge or information of any circumstance or condition in connection with the Insured Person  in 
possession of any official of the Company  shall not be notice to or be held to bind or prejudicially affect the 
Company  notwithstanding subsequent acceptance of any premium.  
 
11. Multiple  Claims:   
In the event  a claim  is payable  in multiple  sections  under  this policy  the Company’s  liability  will be restricted  to the 
highest  amount  payable per section. This will not apply to the following sections: Accidental Death (AD); 
Permanent  Total  Disability  (PTD);  Permanent  Partial  Disablement  (PPD)  
 
12. Nomination  
The Insured is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims 
under the policy in the event of death of the Insured. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the 
company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. In the 
event of death of the Insure d, the Company will pay the nominee (as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy 
Certificate/Endorsement (if any)) and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal 
representatives of the Insured whose discharge shall be treated as full an d final discharge of its liability under 
the policy . 
 
13. Fraud  
If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is 
made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or anyone 
acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium 
paid shall be forfeited.  
 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fra udulent later shall be 
repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally 
liable for such repayment to the insurer.  
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” means any of the fol lowing acts committed by the insured 
person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the insured person, with intent 
to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy:  
 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not believe 
to be true;  
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of the fact;  
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and  
d) any such act or omission as the law spec ially declares to be fraudulent  
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the 
insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there 
was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact 
are within the knowledge of the insurer.  
 
III. CONDITIONS WHEN A CLAIM ARISES  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 18 of 101 
 
 
14. Claims Procedure:  
 
1. In the event of an accident or sudden illness which is likely to give rise to a claim under this Policy, the Insured 
Person  shall immediately contact the Assistance Service Provider giving details of the Policy issued to him/her. 
The details of phone numbe rs and Helpline are given in the Schedule/Certificate attached to this Policy.  
 
2. The Insured Person  or his representative shall provide to the Assistance Service Provider maximum information 
about the illness, accident or occurrence as is available, as wel l as other information such as the Policy number 
etc. Assistance Service Provider shall assist the Insured Person  in getting admitted in to a hospital / getting 
treatment from a Medical Practitioner as an outpatient.  
 
3. Where it is not possible to make an em ergency call before consulting a Medical Practitioner or going into 
hospital, the Insured Person  shall contact the Assistance Service Provider as soon as possible. In either case, 
when being admitted as a patient, the Insured Person  shall inform the Medica l Practitioner or personnel at the 
hospital, the details of his/her policy coverage and shall state the details of the Assistance Service Provider and 
request them to contact them.  
 
4. All necessary claim documents should be furnished to the Company / Assista nce Service Provider by the policy 
holder/insured to make a claim. However, claims filed even beyond such period should be considered if there 
are valid reasons of any delay.  
 
5. If proper intimation is given, the Assistance Service Provider shall give a cash less authorisation to the hospital / 
other providers for the costs of hospitalization under Scope of Coverage under the Policy. These costs will be 
settled directly by the Assistance Service Provider on behalf of and for the account of the Company . The Insured 
Person  shall release Medical Practitioners/hospital contacted by Assistance Service Provider from their duty not 
to disclose information about his/her case.  
 
6. In such cases, the Insured Person  before his discharge from the Hospital, shall fill up and sign the claim form and 
hand over the same to the Hospital authorities to be handed over to Assistance Service Provider. Please send 
the duly signed claim form along with all the documents to designated TPA within 30 days of the occurrence of 
the Incident.  However, claims filed even beyond such period should be considered if there are valid reasons of 
any delay.  
 
7. Where no information is given to Assistance Service Provider and the payment for hospital treatment / 
outpatient treatment has been made by the Insured Person , the reasons therefore shall have to be given by the 
Insured Person  along with the claim form giving details of treatment and bills for expenditure to the Company  
or Assistance Service Provider. After examining the facts and establishing the liability, in consultation and with 
the approval of the Company , Assistance Service Provider will reimburse to the Insured Person  the costs 
incurred within the Scope of Coverage of the Policy on behalf of and for the account of the Company .  
 
8. Besides where  the Insured Person  and Assistance Service Provider agree that even though the procedure under 
Claims Procedure is complied with, the claim should be settled on a reimbursement basis (in consultation and 
with the approval of the Company ), then it will be d one so accordingly.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 19 of 101 
 
9. The Company  shall only be liable to indemnify if, besides proof of insurance cover, the documentary proofs 
required as per the claims procedure stated in the Policy, is also submitted.  
 
10. The total loss of checked - in baggage caused by the Common Carrier  (airlines) must be reported to the Common 
Carrier s and a Property Irregularity Report (P.I.R) shall be obtained from them. Original report together with the 
ticket(s), baggage tag(s) and th e claim form are to be submitted in support of a claim by the Insured Person  to 
the Company  or Assistance Service Provider.  
 
11. Loss of Gadgets  must be reported to the police authorities within 24 hours of discovery of such loss and an 
official report obtain ed from the Police authorities. The original official report of the Police authorities should 
also be submitted along with the claim form to the Company  or Assistance Service Provider.  
 
12. Failure to comply with the claims procedure stated above in respect of  Total Loss of Checked -in Baggage and, 
Gadgets, may prejudice the claim of the Insured Person .  
 
13. Claims for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Company  or Assistance Service Provider within one month 
after completion of the treatment or transportation home. In the event of accidental death, the same shall be 
submitted within one month after transportation of mortal remains/burial.  
 
14. The Insured Person  shall provide Assistance Service Provider / the Company  on demand with any information 
that is required to determine the occurrence of the insured event or the scope of the Company 's liability. In 
particular, at the request of Assistance Service Provider / t he Company  proof shall be furnished of the actual 
commencement of the trip abroad.  
 
15. If requested to do so by Assistance Service Provider / the Company , the Insured Person  shall authorise 
Assistance Service Provider / the Company  to obtain all the informati on considered necessary from third parties 
(Medical Practitioners, dentists, alternative practitioners, medical institutions of any kind, insurance carriers, 
health or pension offices) and release these parties from their obligation not to disclose informa tion.  
 
16. If requested to do so by Assistance Service Provider / the Company , the Insured Person  is obliged to undergo a 
medical examination by a Medical Practitioner designated by Assistance Service Provider / the Company .  
 
17. In case of any claim under Perso nal Liability, p roof of judicial decision rendered by a Court of Law may be 
required.  
 
18. In case of any accident giving rise to a claim under the Personal Accident section of the Policy, the Insured 
Person , his/her nominee or legal representatives, as the c ase may be, shall provide complete information and 
details about the Insured Person  in the claim form along with the claim documents listed in the policy wordings 
to the Company  or Assistance Service Provider.  
 
19. The Insured/ Insured Person shall provide th e Company with the details of the trip and other information as 
may be required by the Company from time to time.  
 
20. In case a covered insured event, as described in the Beneﬁt Section, occurs before date of purchase of this policy 
or advance warning is issu ed by the relevant authorities of the likelihood of such an event happening before 
date of purchase of this policy the Company shall not be liable to pay a claim.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 20 of 101 
 
 
15. Claim Settlement:  
1. Reimbursement of claims shall be in India, in Indian Rupees.  
2. We shall settle claims, including its rejection, within thirty days of the receipt of last `necessary’ document.  
3. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the insurer, it shall 
initiate and complete such investigation at  the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, Insurer shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date 
of receipt of last necessary document.  
4. In case of delay in the payment, the Co mpany shall be liable to pay penal interest at a rate which is 2% 
above the Bank rate prevalent at the beginning of the financial year in which the claim is reviewed.  
 
16. Claim Documentation:  
Claim documents as detailed in Annexure II – Claim Documentation is  to be submitted along with the copy of 
Policy Certificate and duly filled and signed claim form by the Insured Person or Nominee or Legal heir.  
 KYC of the Insured for other than death claim and KYC of the nominee / legal heir in case of death claim  
 Accou nt details with proof for NEFT of the Insured for other than death claim and KYC of the nominee/legal 
heir in case of death claim i.e. cancelled cheque, passbook copy  
 
17. Transfer  and Set-oﬀ of Claims:  
a) If the Insured/ Insured Person have any outstanding claims  against third parties, such claims shall be 
transferred in writing to the Company up to the amount for which the reimbursement of costs is made by 
the Company in accordance  with  the terms  hereunder.  
b) In so far as an Insured/  Insured  Person  receives  compensation  for costs  he/she has  incurred  either  from  third  
parties  liable  for damages  or as a result  of other legal circumstances, the Company shall be entitled to set 
oﬀ this compensation  against  the insurance  beneﬁts  payable.  
c) Claims to the insurance beneﬁts may be neither pledged nor transferred by the  Insured/  Insured  Person.  
Transfer and Set -oﬀ of Claims shall not be applicable to any of the medical sections  under  Emergency  Medical  
Expenses,  Emergency  Medical  Evacuation, Repatriation of Mortal Remains, Personal Accident, Accidental 
Death and Permanent Total Disablement – Common carrier, Accidental Dental Treatment,  Daily  Allowance  
in case  of hospitalization  
18. Right to inspect:  
If required by the Company, an agent/representative of the Company including a loss assessor or a Surveyor 
appointed in that behalf shall in case of any loss or any circumstances that have given rise to a claim to the 
Insured Person be permitted at all reasonable times to examine into the circumstances of such  loss. The Insured 
Person shall on being required so to do by the Company produce all relevant documents relating to or containing 
reference relating to the loss or such circumstance in his possession including presenting himself for 
examination and furnis h copies of or extracts from such of them as may be required by the Company so far as 
they relate to such claims or will in any way assist the Company to ascertain the correctness thereof or the 
liability of the Company under this Policy.  
 
19. Electronic T ransaction:  
The Insured Person agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and conditions as the Company may 
prescribe from time to time and hereby agrees and confirms that all transactions effected by or through facilities 
for conducting remote tr ansactions including the internet, world wide web, Electronic data interchange, call 
centres, teleservice operations (whether voice, video, data or combination thereof) or by means of electronic, 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 21 of 101 
 
computer, automated machines network or through other means of telecommunication established by or on 
behalf of the Company for and in respect of the Policy or its terms or the Company’s other products and services, 
shall constitute legally binding and valid transactions when done in adherence to and in compliance with the 
Company’s terms and conditions for such facilities, as may be prescribed from time to time. However, the terms 
of this condition shall not override provisions of any law(s) or statutory regulations including provisions of IRDAI 
regulations for pro tection of policyholder’s interests. All conditions of section 41 prescribed necessary 
disclosures on terms, conditions and major exclusions shall be made known to the Insured Person; Any voice 
transaction shall be duly recorded, with the consent of the In sured Person and the recordings shall be 
maintained by or on behalf of the Company and shall be made available to the Insured Person  for subsequent 
validation/confirmation of the Insured Person , if so required.  
 
20. Subrogation:  
In the event of payment under this Policy, the Company shall be subrogated to all the Insured /Insured Person's 
rights or recovery thereof against any person or Organisation, and the Insured/Insured Person shall execute and 
deliver instruments and papers necessary to secure such rights. The Insured/Insured Person and any claimant 
under this Policy shall at the expense of the Company do and concur in doing and permit to be done, all such 
acts and things as may be necessary or required by the Company, before or after Insured /Insure d Person's 
indemnification, in enforcing or endorsing any rights or remedies, or of obtaining relief or indemnity, to which 
the Company shall be or would become entitled or subrogated. However, this condition shall not be applicable 
to Emergency Medical Ex penses, Emergency Medical Evacuation, Repatriation of Mortal Remains, Dental 
Treatment Expenses, Personal Accident, Accidental Death and Permanent Total Disability – Common Carrier, 
Daily allowance in case of Hospitalization Sections.  
 
21. Notice of charge : 
The Company shall not be bound to take notice or be affected by any notice of any trust, charge, lien, assignment 
or other dealing with or relating to this Policy, but the payment by the Company to the Insured /Insured Person 
or his/her nominees or the l egal representative, as the case may be, of any compensation or benefit under the 
Policy shall in all cases be an effectual discharge to the Company.  
 
IV. CONDITIONS FOR RENEWAL OF THE CONTRACT  
 
22. Renewal:  
The Company shall give notice for renewal of the Annual Multi Trip policies and accept renewal premium in all 
cases except in case of fraud, misrepresentation or non -cooperation of the Policy Holder / Insured Person in 
implementing the terms and conditions  of this Policy or if the renewal of Policy poses a moral hazard. Every 
renewal premium (which shall be paid and accepted in respect of this Policy) shall be so paid and accepted upon 
the distinct understanding that no alteration has taken place in the fac ts contained in the declaration herein 
before mentioned and that nothing is known to the Insured / Insured Person that may result to enhance the risk 
of the Company. No renewal receipt shall be valid unless it is on the printed form of the Company and sign ed 
by an authorized official of the Company.  
 
This Policy provides 30 days Grace Period for renewing the Policy. However, Coverage will not be available 
during the grace period.  
 
23. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the policy including the Premium Rat es: 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 22 of 101 
 
The company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the premium 
rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected.  
 
24. Policy Withdrawal and Migration:  
a. In the likelih ood of this policy being withdrawn in future, the Company  will inform the same to the Policy 
Holder / Insured at least 3 months prior to expiry of the policy.  
b. Policy Holder/Insured will have the option to migrate to other plan under similar travel insurance policy, if 
available with the Company, at the time of renewal (in case of Annual policies), provided the policy has 
been maintained without a break.  
 
25. Enh ancement of Sum Insured:  
During currency of the policy, no change of plan or Sum Insured is allowed.  
 
26. Cancellation:  
In case of Annual Policies, the Company may at any time, cancel this Policy, by giving 30 days notice in writing 
by Registered Post Ack nowledgment Due to the Policy Holder/Insured Person at his last known address The 
Company shall exercise its right to cancel only in case of fraud, mis-representation, non -disclosure of material 
facts. In such cases, policy shall be void and all premium pa id thereon shall be forfeited to the Company as per 
the disclosure to information norm. The Company shall exercise its right to cancel the policy on grounds of non -
cooperation of the Policy Holder/ Insured Person in implementing the terms and conditions of  this Policy. In 
such cases, Insurer shall be liable to repay premium as specified in the below mentioned table subject to no 
claims.  
 
The Policy Holder/Insured Person may also give 30 days notice in writing, to the Company, for the cancellation 
of this Po licy, in which case the Company shall from the date of receipt of notice cancel the Policy and retain 
the premium for the period this Policy has been in force at the Company's short period scales, provided that, no 
refund of premium shall be made if any cl aim has been made under this Policy by or on behalf of the Insured 
Person up to the date of cancellation of this Policy.  
 
Short Period Scale  
Policy Period  Up to  Rate Of Premium to be retained  
Up to 15% of Policy Period  25% of premium paid  
Up to 25% of Policy Period  50% of premium paid  
Up to 50% of Policy Period  75% of premium paid  
Exceeding 50% of Policy Period  100% of premium paid  
 
In case of single trip policies, termination of the Policy at a date earlier than the end date can be done only if 
the Insured Person returns back to his/her usual town of residence  earlier than the end date of the Period of 
Insurance of the Policy. Refund of premium for the days between the return to the usual town  of residence  and 
the end date of the Period of Insurance  as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate will only be given 
if the same are a minimum of 10 days. Premium refunded will be equal to the amount of premium to be paid 
for the original Policy duration minus the premium to be paid by taking the return date as the new end date of 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 23 of 101 
 
Period of Insurance, provided that, no refund of premium shall be made if any claim has been made under this 
Policy by or on behalf of the Insured/Insured Person.  
 
27. Policy Disputes:  
The parties to this Policy expressly agree that the laws of the Republic of India shall govern the validity, 
construction, interpretation and effect of this Policy. Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms and 
conditions, limitations and/or e xclusions contained herein is understood and agreed to by both the insured and 
the Company to be subject to Indian law and in Indian Court.  
 
28. Arbitration:  
a. Any dispute or difference between the Insurer and the Insured Person or the Policyholder will be resolved in 
accordance with Arbitration & Conciliation Act 1996 or any modification or amendment of it. The arbitration 
proceedings shall be conducted in the English language.  
b. It is agreed as a condition precedent to any right of action or suit on th is Policy that a final arbitration award 
shall be first obtained.  
c. If this arbitration clause is held to be invalid in whole or in part, then all disputes shall be referred to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of Chennai Courts.  
 
6.GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL MECHANIS M 
In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through  
 
Website   : www.cholainsurance.com  
Toll free   : 1800 208 9100  
E-Mail   : customercare@cholams.murugappa.com  
Fax  : 044 -4044 5550  
Courier   : Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited, Customer services, Head                                          
Office  Dare House 2nd floor, No 2 N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai 600 001  
Insured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company’s branches with the details of grievance.  
If insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, insured person 
may contact the grievance officer at GRO@cholams.murugappa.com  
For details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link www.cholainsurance.com  
If any Grievances / issues on Health insurance related claims pertaining to Senior Citizens, Insured can register the 
complaint / grievance in ‘Senior Citizen Channel’ which shall be processed on Fast Track Ba sis by dedicated 
personnel.  
If You have not received any reply from us within 3 days from the date of the lodgement of complaint or if You are 
not satisfied with the reply of the Company, you can contact the IRDA Grievance Call Centre at the toll free no. 
155255 or email at complaints@irda.gov.in  for registering the grievance or the nearest Insurance Ombudsman 
Office. For Ombudsman list please visit https://www.cioins.co.in/ombudsman.html   
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management system https://i gms.irda.gov.in/  
Areas of Jurisdiction  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 24 of 101 
 
Gujarat, UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and 
Diu Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd floor, Ambica 
House, Near C.U. Shah College, 5, Navyug Colony, Ashram 
Road, Ahmedabad – 380014  
Tel.: 079 -27546150/27546139, Fax: 079 -27546142, Email: 
bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in  
Karnataka  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevansoudha 
Building, PID No.57 -27-N-19, Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th 
Main Road, JP Nagar, 1st Phase, Bengaluru 560078. Tel.: 
080-26652048/26652049, Email: 
bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in  
Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Janakvihar  Complex, 
2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New 
Market, Bhopal – 462003. Tel.: 0755 -2769201/2769202, 
Fax.: 0755 -2769203, Email.: 
bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in  
Odisha  Office of the Insu rance Ombudsman, 62, Foresh Partk, 
Bhubhaneshwar – 750009. Tel.: 0674 -2596461/2586455. 
Fax.: 0674 -2596429. Email.: 
bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in  
Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and 
Kash mir, UT of Chandigarh  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No.101, 102 & 
103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, Sector 17 -D, Chandigarh – 
160017. Tel.: 0172 -2706196/2706468. Fax.: 0172 -
2708274, Email.: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in  
Tamilnadu, UT -Pondicherry Town and Karaikal 
(which are part of UT of Pondicherry)  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Fatima Akhtar Court, 
4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, Teynampet, Chennai 600 018. 
Tel. 044 – 24333668/24335284.  Fax. 044 -24333664, 
Email.: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in  
Delhi  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal 
Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110002. Tel. 
011-23239633/23237532, Fax .011 -23230858, Email.: 
bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in  
Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal 
Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanNivesh, 5th 
Floor, Nr. Panbazar over  bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati – 
781001 (ASSAM). Tel.: 0361 -2132204/2132205, Fax.: 
0361 -2732937, Email.: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in  
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT of Yanam -a part 
of the UT of Pondicherry  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6 -2-46, 1st Floor, 
“Moin court”, Lane Opp., Saleem Function Palace, A.C. 
Guards, Lakdi -Ka-Pool, Hyderabad – 500004. Tel.: 040 -
65504123/23312122, Fax.: 040 -23376599, Email.: 
bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in  
Rajasthan  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,JeevanNidhi – II Bldg, 
Gr. Fllor, Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur – 302005. Tel.: 0141 -
2740363, Email.: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in  
Kerala, UT of (a) Lakshadweep, (b) Mahe -a part of UT 
of Pondicherry  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  2nd Floor, Pulinat 
Bldg., Opp. Cohin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam – 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 25 of 101 
 
682015, Tel.: 0484 -2358759 /2359338, Fax.: 0484 -
2359336, Email.: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in  
West Bengal, UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 
Sikkim  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Hindustan Bldg, 
Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C. R. Avenue, Kolkata – 700072. Tel. 
033-22124339/22124340. Fax. 033 -22124341, Email.: 
bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in  
Districts of Uttar Pradesh, Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, 
Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allaha bad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, 
Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, 
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi, 
Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, 
Mahar ajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, 
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor, 
Jeevanbhawan, Phase -II, Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow – 226001. Tel.: 0522 -2231330/2231 331. Fax.: 
0522 -2331310. Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in  
 
 
Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi 
Mumbai & Thane  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevanseva 
Annexe, S.V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai – 400054. Tel.: 
022-26106552/26106960. Fax: 022 -26106052. Email: 
bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in  
 
State of Uttaranchal and the following districts of 
Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Baudam, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, 
Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, 
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambod hanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, 
Saharanpur,  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Bhagwansahai 
Palace, 4th floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: 
gautambhuddh Nagar,  U.P – 201301. Tel.: 0120 -
2514250/2514251/2514253. Email.: 
bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in  
 
Bihar, Jharkhand  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Fllor, Kalpana 
Arcade Building, Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpu r, Patna 
800006, Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in  
Maharashtra, Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane 
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanDarshan Bldg, 
3rd floor, C.T.S.  No.s 195 to198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan 
Peth, Pune -411030 Tel: 020 -32341320, Email: 
bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in  
 
  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 26 of 101 
 
7. COVERAGE - OPTIONAL COVERS  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Policy, In consideration of payment of additional 
premium, the policy is extended to cover the optional covers listed below upto the Sum Insured’ s shown within the 
Policy Schedule/Certificate.  
 
Endorsement no.  Optional Covers (on payment of additional premium)  
1 Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease  
2 Emergency  Medical Evacuation & Repatriation of Mortal remains  
3 Pre existing condition in Life Threatening Situation  
4 Personal Accident Covers -Common Carrier  
5 Dental Treatment Expenses  
6 Daily Allowance in case of Hospitalization  
7 Daily Allowance in case of Non - Hospitalization  
8 Compassionate Visit  
9 Hijack Distress Allowance  (Airways)  
10 Child Escort  
11 Total Loss of  checked in Baggage  (Airways)  
11A Total Loss of checked in Baggage on Benefit Basis  (Airways)  
12 Delay of Checked -in Baggage  (Airways)  
12A Delay of Checked -in Baggage on Benefit Basis  (Airways)  
13 Trip Cancellation  
13A Trip Cancellation on Benefit basis  
14 Trip Interruption  
14A Trip Interruption on Benefit basis  
15 Missed Connection  (Airways)  
15A Missed Connection on Benefit basis  (Airways)  
16 Trip Delay  (Airways)  
16A Trip Delay on Benefit basis  (Airways)  
17 Emergency accommodation due to Trip Delay  (Airways)  
18 Flight Delay (Airlines)  
18A Flight Delay (Airlines) on Benefit basis  
19 Over Booked -Common Carrier  (Airways)  
19A Over Booked -Common Carrier on Benefit basis  (Airways)  
20 Bounced Hotel booking  
21 Travel Inconvenience  
21 Travel  Inconvenience on Benefit basis  
22 Travel Service Supplier Insolvency  
23 Car Rental Excess Insurance  
24 Personal Liability  
25 Legal expenses  
26 Home Burglary Insurance (Contents)  
27 Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy  
28 Financial Emergency  Assistance  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 27 of 101 
 
28A Financial Emergency  Assistance on Benefit basis  
29 Pet Care  
30 Sports Equipment cover  
31 Adventure Sports  
32 Cruise cover  
33 Debit / Credit Card – Fraud  
34 Loss of Gadgets  
35 Alternate Employee/Substitute Employee Expenses  
36 Loss  of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airline)  
37 Travel Loan Secure  
38 Mobility Aids Allowance  
39 Travel with Pet cover  
40 Missed Departure  
40A Missed Departure on Benefit basis  
41 Flight Diversion & Cancellation  
41A Flight Diversion & Cancellation on Benefit basis  
42 Baggage Delay in Common carrier  
42A Baggage Delay in Common carrier on Benefit basis  
43 Baggage Loss in Common carrier  
43A Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basis  (Airways)  
44 Loss of baggage and Personal Belongings  
45 Terrorism cover  
46 Key Replacement  
47 Loss of Documents  
48 Change Fee Coverage  
49 Cyber Security  
50 Identity Theft  
51 Carrier Cancellation  
51A Carrier Cancellation on Benefit basis  
52 Digital Camera Insurance  
53 All Risk Cancellation  
54 Automatic  Extension for 7 Days  
 
Endorsement no. 1. EMERGENCY MEDICAL EXPENSES -ILLNESS/DISEASES :  
 
a. Coverage:  
The policy shall reimburse to the insured th e Reasonable and Customary Charges for Emergency Medical Expenses 
incurred in the Republic of India by insured for immediate medical services  as an in -patient  due to any covered illness 
or disease contracted by an insured and which does not relate to his /  her past medical history up to the maximum 
Sum Insured  and for policy period as stated in the policy schedule. The treatment shall cover the following.  
 
1. In-patient  treatment  in a local  hospital  at the place  where  the Insured  is staying  at the time  of the event;  
2. X-ray, diagnostic tests and all reasonable costs towards diagnostic methods  and treatment  during 
hospitalisation  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 28 of 101 
 
3. Radiotherapy,  heat  therapy , physiotherapy or photo  therapy  and other  such  treatment prescribed  by a 
Medical  Practitioner  requiring in-patient hospitalisation ; 
4. If any disease/ illness during the period necessitate curative treatment beyond  duration of this insurance, 
the Company’s liability to pay benefits within the scope of this Policy under this cover shall extend 
automatically for a further period of 7 days insofar as it can be proved that transportation home is not 
possible. Assistance Service Provider must be notified immediately as soon as it is known that Insured / 
Insured Person is unfit to return to home town /home. If any new  disease / illness/injury is contracted 
beyond duration of this Policy, treatment for the same will not be covered.  
  
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions to Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness/Diseases:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection  with  or in respect  of any 
expenses  whatsoever  incurred  by the Insured/ Insured  Person  for: 
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of 
permanent residence. The question of what  can or what  cannot  be reasonably  delayed  will be decided  
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance  with  accepted  
standards  of medical  care.  
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency  treatment  on account  of 
an insured  event.  
3. Treatmen t relating to the removal of physical ﬂaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery 
in any form or manner unless medically  required  as part  of treatment  for accidents  and burns).  
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, 
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures,  private  duty  nursing,  respite  care,  domiciliary  care,  long - 
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency  
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences  of either  completed.  
6. Any health  check -ups or examinations  or measures  primarily  carried  out for diagnostic or investigative 
reasons for any purpose other than treatment  related  to an Accident  
7. Any exclusion  mentioned  in the 'General  Exclusions'  section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no. 2 – EMERGENCY MEDICAL EVACUATION & REPATRIATION OF MORTAL REMAINS:  
 
a. Coverage  
i. Emergency Medical Evacuation:  
The Policy shall  reimburse  reasonable  transportation  charges  of the Insured Person during the policy period due 
to an emergency accident  arising  out of other  than  pre-existing  diseases  and if such  transportation  has been  
prescribed  by the Medical  Practitioner of Assistance Service Provider.  
(a) From a Hospital where the insured was treated to another nearest hospital,  provided  
1. such  transportation  is medically  necessary  
2. such medical services provided at a Hospital where the Insured Person  is situated  are not satisfactory  
3. Our Assistance Company has agreed to the reimbursement of the cost of transportation in advance 
of the transportation, and has arranged  the same.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 29 of 101 
 
(b) From a Hospital where the insured was last treated to the Insured Person’s  usual  place  of residence.  
 
ii. Repatriation of Mortal Remains:  
In the event of accidental death of the Insured/ Insured Person due to an accident, the Company shall reimburse 
the costs of transporting the mortal remains of the deceased Insured/Insured Person back to his/her usual place of 
residence within India or the cost of local burial or cremation anywhere in INDIA where the accidental death 
occurred.  
 
The deductible in respect of this beneﬁt will be applicable for each and every claim separately and shall be of an 
amount as speciﬁed  in the Policy Schedule.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insure d 
 
Endorsement no.3 – PRE-EXISTING CONDITION IN LIFE THREATENING SITUATION:  
 
a. Coverage  
If the Insured / Insured Person contracts any disease or illness during the Policy period r equiring life -saving 
unforeseen emergency measures for treating such illness or disease and which requires In -Patient 
treatment at a Hospital in an ICU due to any pre -existing condition, the Company will reimburse the medical 
expenses incurred for Hospital ization to the Insured/Insured Person. The treatment for these emergency 
measures would be paid till the Insured/Insured Person becomes medically stable, as ascertained by the 
treating Medical Practitioner of the hospital.  All further medical costs to mai ntain medically stable state 
would have to be borne by the Insured/Insured Person;  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Bas e Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.4 – PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVERS - COMMON CARRIER  (AD & PTD) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The Policy will pay up to the limit of the Sum Insured for this beneﬁt as speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule if accidental 
injury to the Insured/Insured Person results in loss of life or permanent total disablement while riding as a passenger 
(but not as a pilot operator or member of the crew) in or on, boarding or alighting from any common carrier provided 
that, this beneﬁt shall also not apply while the Insured/Insured Person is riding in or on, or boarding or alighting 
from, any civilian aircraft that does not hold a current /or is piloted by a person who does not hold a current and 
valid certiﬁcate of competency of a rating authorizing him to pilot such  aircraft.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Personal Accident Covers -Common Carrier (AD&PTD) : 
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this beneﬁt  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. Any existing  physical  disability.  
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due to intake of 
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics,  hallucinogens.  
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning  except  where  these  arise  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 30 of 101 
 
from  an accident.  
4. Any payment  under  this beneﬁt  whereby  the Company's  liability  would exceed  the sum  payable  in the 
event  of accidental  death.  
5. Any other  claim  after  a claim  for accidental  death  has been  admitted  by the  Company  and becomes  
payable.  
6. Any claim  which  arises  out of an accident  connected  with  the operation of an aircraft  (Including  Cabin  
Crew)  or which  occurs  during  parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is ﬂying as a Fare 
Paying passenger in a multi -engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter  company.  
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement  of the Insured/Insured  
Person  from;  
a. intentional  self-injury,  suicide,  or attempted  suicide.  
b. whilst  under  the inﬂuence  of intoxication,  liquor  or drugs.  
c. arising  or resulting  from  the insured/insured  person  committing  any breach of law with criminal 
intent or participating in an actual or  attempted  felony,  riot,  crime,  misdemeanour  or civil 
commotion.  
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing, 
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand  gliding,  mountaineering  or rock  climbing,  potholing,  
abseiling, deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless s peciﬁcally covered  and duly  
mentioned  in the Policy  Schedule.  
8. Any consequential  loss or damage  cost or expense  of whatsoever  nature.  
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly  caused by, contributed  to or aggravated  or prolonged  
by childbirth,  maternity  or pregnancy  or in consequence  thereof,  venereal  disease  or inﬁrmity.  
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured 
Person, due to or arising out of or directly connected with or traceable to  act of terrorism or terrorist  
activities.  
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special Conditions applicable to Personal Accident Covers -Common Carrier (AD&PTD) : 
1. In the event of partial loss or impairment of the function of one of the above parts of the body or senses, 
the appropriate proportion of the percentage as stated in the “Table of Beneﬁts” will be considered for 
payment.  
2. If the accident impairs a number of physical or mental functions, the degree of disab lement given in the 
Table of Beneﬁts will be added together, but the amount payable shall not exceed 100% of the Sum 
Insured  as speciﬁed  in the Policy  Schedule.  
3. If the accident  aﬀects  parts  of the body  or senses  whose  loss or inability to  function  is not dealt  with  above,  
the governing  factor  in determining the  beneﬁt  amount  in such  a case  will be the degree  to which  the 
normal physical  or mental  capabilities  are impaired,  solely  from  a medical  point of view, as ascertained by 
a Medical Practitioner or a panel of doctor of the  company  or Assistance Service  Provider.  
4. In the event  of permanent  disablement,  the Insured/Insured  Person  will be  under  obligation:  
a. To have himself/herself examined by the Medical Practitioners appointed  by the 
Company/Assistance  Service  Provider and  the Company  will pay the costs  thereof  
b. To authorize Medical Practitioner providing treatment or giving expert  opinion  and any other  
authority  to supply  the Company  any information that may be required on the condition of the 
Insured/Insured  Person.  
5. If the above  obligations  are not met with  due to whatsoever  reason,  the Company shall be relieved of its 
liability to compensate under this beneﬁt.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 31 of 101 
 
6. The beneﬁt applicable under this Section shall be in addition to the beneﬁts applicable under optional 
cover -Personal Accident - Common Carrier for Accidental Death and Permanent Total  Disability , if opted.  
 
Endorsement no.5 – DENTAL TREATMENT EXPENSES:  
a. Coverage  
The Policy shall reimburse to the Insured/Insured Person expenses incurred in respect of acute anesthetic treatment 
of a natural tooth or teeth  during a trip as an Inpatient  or as an out -patient arising from an accidental injury , but not 
exceeding the Sum Insured specified in the Policy Certificate.  
  
b. Specific Exclusions Applicable to Dental Treatment Expenses:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any 
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured / Insured Person for:  
 
1. Treatment, which could reasonably be delayed until the Ins ured/ Insured Person's return.  The question of 
what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided jointly by the treating Dentist and the 
Assistance Service Provider.  
2. Treatment of orthop aedic, degenerative or oncological diseases,  
3. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges a s per the determination by the Assistance Service 
Provider.  
4. Cementing or Fixation of tooth or teeth bridge/s.  
5. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws o r anomalies (cosmetic treatment or 'plastic' surgery in 
any form or manner).  
6. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, convalescence 
home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, dom iciliary care, and long - term nursing 
care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency.  
7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separ ately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.6 – DAILY ALLOWANCE IN CASE OF HOSPITALISATION:  
 
a. Coverage  
The Policy w ill pay a ﬁxed daily allowance  upto a maximum no. of days as mentioned in the policy 
Schedule/Certificate , in the event of hospitalization of the Insured/Insured Person due to an emergency accident or 
illness arising out of other than pre -exiting diseases beyond a speciﬁed number of da ys as mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule as deductible, for which a valid claim is admissible under the Policy whilst on a trip.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Bene fit. 
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 32 of 101 
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Daily Allowance in case of Hospitalisation:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection  with  or in respect  of any 
expenses  whatsoever  incurred  by the Insured/ Insured  Person  for: 
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of 
permanent residence. The question of what  can or what  cannot  be reasonably  delayed  will be decided  
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance  with  accepted  
standards  of medical  care.  
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency  treatment  on account  of 
an insured  event.  
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical ﬂaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery 
in any form or manner unless medically  required  as part  of treatment  for accidents  and burns).  
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, 
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures,  private  duty  nursing,  respite  care,  domiciliary  care,  long - 
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency  
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences  of either  completed.  
6. Any health  check -ups or examinations  or measures  primarily  carried  out for diagnostic or investigative 
reasons for any purpose other than treatment  related  to an Accident  
7. Any exclusion  mentioned  in the 'General  Exclusions'  section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.7 – DAILY ALLOWANCE IN CASE OF NON -HOSPITALISATION:  
a. Coverage  
The Policy will pay a fixed allowance upto a maximum no. of days as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate, if 
an insured is treated for any injury / illness on OPD basis and his condition forbids him from travelling back to his 
original and usual place of residence and is confined to a location as medically suggested by the Medical Practitioner, 
then the insured will be paid the amount as specified in the policy schedule/certificate per day.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This bene fit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions to Daily Allowance in case of Non -Hospitalisation:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection  with  or in respect  of any 
expenses  whatsoever  incurred  by the Insured/ Insured  Person  for: 
 
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of 
permanent residence. The question of what  can or what  cannot  be reasonably  delayed  will be decided  
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance  with  accepted  
standards  of medical  care.  
2. Treatment relating to the removal of physical ﬂaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery 
in any form or manner unless medically  required  as part  of treatment  for accidents  and burns).  
3. Treatment incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, 
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures,  private  duty  nursing,  respite  care,  domiciliary  care,  long - 
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency  
4. Any treatment relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences  of either  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 33 of 101 
 
completed.  
5. Any health  check -ups or examinations  or measures  primarily  carried  out for diagnostic or investigative 
reasons for any purpose other than treatment  related  to an Accident  
6. Any exclusion  mentioned  in the 'General  Exclusions'  section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.8 – COMPASSIONATE VISIT:  
a. Coverage  
In the event the Insured / Insured Person is hospitalized for more than ﬁve (5) consecutive  days  due to an emergency  
accident  or illness  arising  out of other  than pre-existing diseases for which a valid claim is admissible under Base 
cover -Emergency Accidental Hospitalization or optional cover,  Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease  (if 
opted)  and his/her medical condition forbids repatriation and no adult  member  of his/her  immediate  family  is 
present,  the Company  / Assistance  Service  Provider,  after  obtaining  conﬁrmation  of need  for a companion from  the 
attending  Medical  Practitioner  will provide:  
 
a) a return  trip economy  class  air ticket,  or ﬁrst class  railway  ticket,  to allow one  immediate  family  member,  to 
be at his/ her bedside  for the duration of stay in the Hospital;  and 
b) expenses towards stay of the immediate family member during such compassionate  visit.  
 
The policy will also reimburse the cost of return fare for the insured to visit his/her native place in India, in the 
unfortunate event of the immediate family member  (spouse,  dependent  children,  parents)  being  hospitalized  for 
more  than ﬁve (5 consecutive days in India or in the event of death of the immediate  family member  (spouse,  
dependent  children  or parents).  
 
The Company’s liability for round trip ticket and the expenses relating to this beneﬁt  shall  be as per the coverage  and 
the limits  of Sum  Insured  speciﬁed  in the Policy  Schedule/Certificate.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Compassionate Visit : 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection  with  or in respect  of any 
expenses  whatsoever  incurred  by the Insured/ Insured  Person  for: 
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of 
permanent residence. The question of what  can or what  cannot  be reasonably  delayed  will be decided  
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and  shall be in accordance  with  accepted  
standards  of medical  care.  
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency  treatment  on account  of 
an insured  event.  
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical ﬂaws or anomalies (cosmeti c treatment or plastic surgery 
in any form or manner unless medically  required  as part  of treatment  for accidents  and burns).  
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, 
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures,  private  duty  nursing,  respite  care,  domiciliary  care,  long - 
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency  
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences  of either  completed.  
6. Any health  check -ups or examinations  or measures  primarily  carried  out for diagnostic or investigative 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 34 of 101 
 
reasons for any purpose other than treatment  related  to an Accident  
7. Any exclusion  mentioned  in the 'General  Exclusions'  section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.9 – HIJACK DISTRESS ALLOWANCE  (AIRWAYS) : 
a. Coverage  
This Section provides for payment of an allowance in the event of hijack of a common  carrier  in which  the Insured/  
Insured  Person  is traveling  on a trip covered under  this Policy  as speciﬁed  in the Policy  Schedule/certificate.  
 
The deductible  in respect  of this beneﬁt  will be applicable  for each  and every  claim separately  and shall  be of the 
number  of hours  the common  carrier  has been  under hijack,  as speciﬁed  in the Policy  Schedule/Certificate.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Hijack Distress Allowance  (AIRWAYS) : 
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this beneﬁt  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. Any incident  where  the Insured/Insured  Person  is suspected  to be either principal  or an accessory  in the 
hijacking.  
2. Any claim as a consequence of a change in the regular routes of travel/journey of the common carrier 
due to traﬃc, weather, fuel shortage,  and technical  snag  or security  reasons.  
3. Any exclusion  mentio ned in the ‘General  Exclusion’  section  of this Policy.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.10 – CHILD ESCORT:  
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse for the travelling expenses of Insured / Insured person ’s minor children aged below 17 
years for return to home town up to the limit of sum Insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate. The 
Insurer’s liability to make payment is only in excess of the Deductible as specified in policy certificate.  
 
 If the Insured / Insured person whilst on a Trip in India accompanied with his minor children, 
dies due to illness or accident covered under the policy.  
 Such minor children/s is covered under this travel along with Insured / Insured Person  
 Such minor children /s is not accompanied by any other adult family member.  
 
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Child Escort:  
This benefit does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”, 
directly, in whole or in part, including loss  caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General 
Exclusions' section of this Policy.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.11 – TOTAL LOSS OF CHECKED -IN BAGGAGE  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 35 of 101 
 
The Policy  shall reimburse to the Insured/Insured Person for the total and complete loss of checked -in baggage 
caused by a Common Carrier (Air) on a trip covered under this Policy, up to the limits speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule. 
The cover is limited to the travel destinations speciﬁed in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of residence.  
 
In the event of such a total and complete loss of checked -in baggage whilst in the custody of an airline, a Property 
Irregularity Report (PIR) must be obtained from the  airline immediately upon discovery of the loss which must be 
submitted along with the claim.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Total Loss of Checked -in Baggage  (Airways) : 
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this Section  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other  item(s)  not declared  to, and 
agreed  to by the Company.  
2. Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers 
in the event of loss of checked -in baggage  has been  procured  and submitted  to the Company.  
3. Any partial  loss of the items  contained  within  the checked -in baggage.  
4. Items contained within the checked -in baggage, which are valued in excess  of INR.5000  without  
appropriate  proof  of ownership.  
5. Losses arising from any delay, detention, conﬁscation by the customs oﬃcials  or other  public  authorities.  
6. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special Conditions applicable to Total Loss of Checked -in Baggage (Airways):  
 
1 The Policy will reimburse the Insured/Insured Person for the market value of the checked -in baggage in 
the event of total and complete loss of such checked -in baggage caused by a common carrier up  to the 
limits  speciﬁed  in the Policy  Schedule /Certificate  provided  that:  
a. Maximum amount payable per checked -in baggage, in case more than one bag has been checked -in, 
is 50% of the applicable Sum Insured. In case of only one bag being checked -in, the amount payable  is 
100%  of the applicable  Sum  Insured.  
b. Insured has provided all the documents, reports and other details concerning  the loss.  
2 For the purpose  of this beneﬁt,  “market  value”  refers  to the sum  required to  purchase  new  items  of the same  
kind  and quality  (which  are lost)  less an  amount  representing  wear  and tear,  usage  etc.,  at the time  of loss.  
3 If the Company makes any payment under this beneﬁt, it is a condition that any recovery from any 
common carrier by the Insured/Insured Person,  under  the terms  of the Convention  for the Uniﬁcation  of 
Certain Rules Relating “Warsaw Convention”  shall  become  the property  of the Company.  
4 The amount  payable  in respect  of any one article,  pair or set is limited  to the  amount  as speciﬁed  in the Policy  
Schedule /Certificate . 
5 No partial loss or damage shall become payable. However, total loss of individual  unit(s)  of baggage  shall  
not be construed  as falling  within  this Special  Condition.  
6 In the event that claims are submitted for  total loss of checked -in baggage  as well as under the optional cover s, 
Delay of Checked -in Baggage (Airways) , Baggage Delay in Common carrier, Baggage Loss in Common carrier  (if opted) , 
the higher  of the claims shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s)  of checked -in 
baggage  during  any one period  of insurance . 
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 36 of 101 
 
Endorsement no.11A – TOTAL LOSS OF CHECKED -IN BAGGAGE ON BENEFIT BASIS  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy  shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the Sum Insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate, t o the 
Insured/Insured Person for the total and complete loss of checked -in baggage caused by a Common Carrier (Air) on 
a trip covered under this Policy.  The cover is limited to the travel destinations speciﬁed in the main trav el ticket from 
his/her usual place of residence.  
 
In the event of such a total and complete loss of checked -in baggage whilst in the custody of an airline, a Property 
Irregularity Report (PIR) must be obtained from the airline immediately upon discovery of  the loss which must be 
submitted along with the claim.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Total Loss of Checked -in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):  
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this Section  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other  item(s)  not declared  to, and 
agreed  to by the Company.  
2. Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers 
in the event of loss of checked -in baggage  has been  procured  and submitted  to the Company.  
3. Any partial  loss of the items  contained  within  the checked -in baggage.  
4. Items contained within the checked -in baggage , which are valued in excess  of INR.5000  without  
appropriate  proof  of ownership.  
5. Losses arising from any delay, detention, conﬁscation by the customs oﬃcials  or other  public  authorities.  
6. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special Conditions applicable to Total Loss of Checked -in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):  
1. If the Company makes any payment under this beneﬁt, it is a condition that any recovery from any 
common carrier by the Insured/Insured Person,  under  the terms  of the Convention  for the Uniﬁcation  of 
Certain Rules Relating “Warsaw Convention”  shall  become  the property  of the Company.  
2. No partial loss or damage shall become payable. However, total loss of individual  unit(s)  of baggage  shall  
not be construed  as falling  within  this Special  Condition.  
3. In the event that claims are submitted for total loss of checked -in baggage  as well as under the optional 
covers - Delay of Checked -in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways), Baggage Delay in Common carrier on 
Benefit basi s, Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basis (Airways)  (if opted), the higher  of the claims 
shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s)  of checked -in baggage  during  any one 
period  of insurance.  
 
Endorsement no.12 – DELAY OF CHECKED -IN BAGGAGE  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse  the costs of necessary emergency purchases of toiletries, medication and clothing in the 
event of the Insured/Insured Person suﬀering delay in scheduled arrival of his/her checked -in baggage caused by a 
common carrier while being transported during the in sured trip up to the limits speciﬁed in the Policy 
Schedule /Certificate , provided that:  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 37 of 101 
 
 
a. The delay  of checked -in baggage  is more  than  certain  number  of hours speciﬁed in the Policy 
Schedule /certificate  as deductible which is calculated from the actual arrival time of the common carrier 
at the destination and relates  to delivery  of baggage  that has been  checked -in by the common carrier.  
b. Insured/ Insured Person provide the Company with a written proof of delay  from  the common  carrier.  
c. Insured/Insured  Person  provides  the Company  with  the receipts  for the necessary emergency purchase 
of toiletries, medication and clothing that he/she needed to buy.  
d. In the event that claims are submitted for Delay of checked -in baggage as  well as under the optional covers, 
Total loss of checked -in baggage(Airways), Baggage Delay in Common carrier, Baggage Loss in Common carrier (if opted) , 
the higher  of the claims shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s)  of checked -in 
baggage  during  any one period  of insurance.  
 
The cover is limited to the travel destinations speciﬁed in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of residence 
and return trip back to usual place of residence along with all halts and via destinations  included in the main travel 
ticket.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicab le to Delay of Checked -in Baggage (Airways) : 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection with or in respect of any 
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insured Person for:  
 
1 Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other  item  not declared  to, and 
agreed  to by the Company.  
2 Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers 
in the event of loss of checked -in baggage  has been  procured  and submitted  to the Company.  
3 Any partial  loss of the items  contained  within  the checked -in baggage.  
4 Items contained within the checked -in baggage, which are valued in excess  of INR 5000  without  
appropriate  proof  of ownership.  
5 Losses arising from any delay, detention, conﬁscation by the  customs oﬃcials  or other  public  authorities.  
6 Loss  due to complete/partial  damage  of the checked -in baggage.  
7 Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special Conditions applicable to Delay of Checked -in Baggage (Airways):  
1. If the Company makes any payment under this beneﬁt, it is a condition that any recovery from any 
common carrier by the Insured/Insured Person,  under  the terms  of the Convention  for the Uniﬁcation  
of Certain Rules Relating to “Warsaw Convention”  shall  become  the property  of the Company.  
 
Endorsement no.12A – DELAY OF CHECKED -IN BAGGAGE ON BENEFIT BASIS  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate, in the event of the 
Insured/Insured Person suﬀering delay in scheduled arrival of his/her checked -in baggage caused by a common 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 38 of 101 
 
carrier while being transported during the insured trip up to the limits speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule/Certificate, 
provided that:  
 
a. The delay  of checked -in baggage  is more  than  certain  number  of hours speciﬁed in the Policy 
Schedule/certificate as deductible which is calculated from the actual arrival time of the common carrier 
at the destination and relates  to delivery  of baggage  that has been  checked -in by the common carrier.  
b. Insured/ Insured Person provide the Company with a written proof of delay  from  the common  carrier.  
c. Insured/Insured  Person  provides  the Company  with  the receipts  for the necessary emergency purchase 
of toiletries, medication and clothing that he/she needed to buy.  
d. In the event that claims are submitted for Delay of checked -in Bagggage  as well as under the optional 
covers - Total loss of Checked -in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways), Baggage Delay in Common carrier on 
Benefit basis, Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basis (Airways)  (if opted), the higher  of the claims 
shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s ) of checked -in baggage  during  any one 
period  of insurance.  
 
The cover is limited to the travel destinations speciﬁed in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of residence 
and return trip back to usual place of residence along with all halts and via destinations included in the main travel 
ticket.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exc lusions applicable to Delay of Checked -in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection with or in respect of any 
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insured Person for:  
 
1. Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other  item(s)  not declared  to, and 
agreed  to by the Company.  
2. Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers 
in the event of los s of checked -in baggage  has been  procured  and submitted  to the Company.  
3. Any partial  loss of the items  contained  within  the checked -in baggage.  
4. Items contained within the checked -in baggage, which are valued in excess  of INR.5000  without  
appropriate  proof  of ownership.  
5. Losses arising from any delay, detention, conﬁscation by the customs oﬃcials  or other  public  authorities.  
6. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special Conditions applicable to Delay of Checked -in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):  
1. If the Company makes any payment under this beneﬁt, it is a condition that any recovery from any common 
carrier by the Insured/Insured Person,  under  the terms  of the Convention  for the Uniﬁcation  of Certain Rules 
Relating to “Warsaw Convention”  shall  become  the property  of the Company.  
 
Endorsement no.13 – TRIP CANCELLATION:  
 
a. Coverage  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 39 of 101 
 
In the event  of cancellation  of trip due to necessary  and unavoidable reasons  as stated  below,  the policy will reimburse  
the insured  subject  to limits shown in the policy schedule/certificate, for loss of personal accommodation, any 
sightseeing  booked  in advance,  cruise  ticket  and travel  charges  paid  or contracted to  be paid  by the insured,  which  
are not recoverable  from  any other  source, and or cost of rescheduling the tour and expenses at the destination.  
 
1. Cancellation  before  the trip shall be because  of the following occurring 15 days prior to the departure date 
as stated in the policy.  
a) Death of Insured, Insured’s Family members  
b) Death of Brother or Sister of the insured  
c) Serious injury, sudden sickness of Insured, insured’s spouse or parent or parent in -law or child 
requiring hospitalization for more than  24 hrs. 
 
b. Special Conditions applicable to Trip Cancellation  
Any c laim paid to the Insured Person under optional covers - Trip Interruption or Travel Inconvenience or All Risk 
Cancellation (if opted) shall invalidate the claim payment under this benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.13A – TRIP CANCELLATION ON BENEFIT BASIS:  
 
a. Coverage  
In the event  of cancellation  of trip due to necessary  and unavoidable reasons  as stated  below,  the policy will pay a 
fixed benefit as specified in the policy schedule/certificate  
 
1. Cancellation  before  the trip shall be because  of the following occurring 15 days prior to the departure date 
as stated in the policy.  
a) Death of Insured, Insured’s Family members  
b) Death of Brother or Sister of the insured  
c) Serious injury, sudden sickness of Insured, insured’s spouse or parent or parent in -law or child 
requiring hospitalization for more than  24 hrs. 
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.14 – TRIP INTERRUPTION:  
 
a. Coverage  
In the event  of interruption  of trip due to necessary  and unavoidable reasons  as stated  below,  the policy will reimburse  
the insured  subject  to limits shown in the policy schedule /certificate , for loss of prepaid expenses of the tour 
which remained unutilized which includes personal accommodation,  sightseeing  booked  in advance,  cruise  ticket  
and travel  charges  paid  and or by the insured to return to his home city and or cost of rescheduling the tour and 
expenses at the destination.  
 
1. Interruption (the cutti ng short by early return to home city) of the trip because  of: 
a) Death,  serious  injury  or sudden  major  sickness  of insured insured’s spouse,  child,  parents  or parent  in 
laws requiring hospitalization OR if the insured becomes medically unfit to continue the journey.  
b) The hijack  of an aircraft  in which  Insured  Person  is traveling  as a fare paying  passenger.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 40 of 101 
 
c) Death  of Brother  or Sister.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Conditions applicable to Trip Interruption:  
Any claim paid to the Insured Person under optional covers - Trip cancellation or Travel Inconvenience or All Risk 
Cancellation (if opted) shall invalidate the claim payment under this benefit.  
 
Endorsement no.14A – TRIP INTERRUPTION ON BENEFIT BASIS:  
 
a. Coverage  
In the event  of interruption  of trip due to necessary  and unavoidable reasons  as stated  below,  the policy will pay a fixed 
benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate, for loss of prepaid expenses of the tour 
which remained unutilized which includes personal accommodation,  sightseeing  booked  in advance,  cruise  ticket  
and travel  charges  paid  and or by the insured to return to his home city and  or cost of rescheduling the tour and 
expenses at the destination.  
 
1. Interruption (the cutti ng short by early return to home city) of the trip because  of: 
a) Death,  serious  injury  or sudden  major  sickness  of insured insured’s spouse,  child,  parents  or parent  in 
laws requiring hospitalization OR if the insured becomes medically unfit to continue the journey.  
b) The hijack  of an aircraft  in which  Insured  Person  is traveling  as a fare paying  passenger.  
c) Death  of Brother  or Sister.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.   
 
Endorsement no.15 – MISSED CONNECTION  (AIRWAYS) : 
a. Coverage  
If the conﬁrmed  onward  connecting  ﬂight  is missed  at the transfer  point  due to the late  arrival  of the incoming  
conﬁrmed  connecting  scheduled  ﬂight  and no onward transportation is made available within 2/3 hours of actual 
arrival time of the incoming  ﬂight,  the policy will reimburse the expenses towards transportation costs to join the 
trip upto a maximum of the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate (must be of the same  class  
of original  tickets  purchased)  together  with  
 
1. expenses incurred in respect of reasonable hotel accommodation, restaurant  meals  or refreshments,  if 
not provided  by the carrier  or other third  party,  subject  to production  of bills/  receipts;  
2. non-refundable, unused portion of the pre -paid expenses as long as these expenses are supported by a 
proof of purchase and is not reimbursable  by another  source.  
 
Such delay must be authenticated by the airline in writing.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 41 of 101 
 
 
b. Spec ial Exclusions  applicable to Missed Connection  (Airways) : 
This beneﬁt does not cover any other loss other than those  mentioned above under  the head  coverage,  directly  in 
whole  or in part,  including  loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' 
section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.15A – MISSED CONNECTION ON BENEFFIT BASIS  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
If the conﬁrmed  onward  connecting  ﬂight  is missed  at the transfer  point  due to the late  arrival  of the incoming  
conﬁrmed  connecting  scheduled  ﬂight  and no onward transportation is made available within 2/3 hours of actual 
arrival time of the incoming  ﬂight,  the policy will pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the 
policy schedule/certificate . 
 
Such delay must be authenticated by the airline in writing.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special E xclusions applicable to Missed Connection  on Benefit basis (Airways) : 
This beneﬁt does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under  the head  coverage,  directly  in 
whole  or in part,  including  loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' 
section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.16 – TRIP DELAY  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall  reimburse  the reasonable additional expenses towards meals and lodging incurred by the Insured 
Person upto the Sum Insured mentioned in the policy certificate , if his or her trip, covered by this Policy, is delayed 
beyond a speciﬁed number of hours, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule /certificate , from the scheduled time only  
on account  of the following  unforeseen  reasons:  
 
1. Strike  of the airline,  where  the insured  person  had booked  conveyance  in advance  
2. Inclement  weather  conditions  causing  cancellation  or interruption  of the trip s; 
3. The places intended to be occupied by the Insured/ Insured Person for purposes  of his or her stay during  
the trip or the destination  being  made uninhabitable by ﬁre, ﬂood, vandalism, burglary, or such natural 
disaster ; 
 
It is the responsibility of the Insured to produce necessary proof establishing the reason for Trip Delay along with 
the receipts.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 42 of 101 
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Specia l Exclusions applicable to Trip Delay  (Airways) : 
This beneﬁt  does  not cover  loss other  than  those  mentioned  above  under  the head coverage, directly , in whole or in 
part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this 
Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.16A - TRIP DELAY ON BENEFIT BASIS  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall  pay a fixed benefit equal to sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate  if his or her 
trip, covered by this Policy, is delayed beyond a speciﬁed number of hours, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule, 
from the scheduled time only  on account  of the following  unforeseen  reasons:  
 
1. Strike  of the airline,  where  the insured  person  had booked  conveyance  in advance  
2. Inclement  weather  conditions  causing  cancellation  or interruption  of the trip s; 
3. The places intended to be occupied by the Insured/ Insured Person for purposes  of his or her stay during  
the trip or the destination  being  made uninhabitable by ﬁre, ﬂood, vandalism, burglary, or such natural 
disaster;  
 
It is the responsibility of the Insured to produce necessary proof establishing the reason for Trip Delay along with 
the receipts.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Trip Delay  on benefit basis (Airways) : 
This beneﬁt  does  not cover  loss other  than  those  mentioned  above  under  the head coverage, directly , in whole or in 
part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this 
Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.17  – EMERGENCY ACCOMMODATION DUE TO TRIP DELAY  (AIRWAYS) : 
a. Coverage  
The policy  shall reimburse the additional cost of emergency accommodation up to a maximum of two (2) nights if 
the Insured/Insured Person could not stay in the accommodation originally booked due to,  
 
1. Inclement  weather  conditions  causing  cancellation  or interruption  of the trip with  due authentication  by a 
letter  from  the common  carrier;  
2. The place intended to be occupied by the Insured/ Insured Person for purposes  of his or her stay during  
the trip or the destination  being  made uninhabitable by ﬁre, ﬂood, earthquake, storm, hurricane, 
explosion, outbreak of major infectious diseases, vandalism, burglary, or such natural  disaster;  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 43 of 101 
 
The cost of the emergency accommodation shall be less than or equal to the category of accommodation originally 
booked by the Insures/Insured person  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Emergency Accommodation due to Trip Delay  (Airways) : 
This beneﬁt  does  not cover  any loss other  than  those  mentioned  above  under  the head  “coverage”,  directly  in whole  
or in part,  including  loss caused  by or resulting from  any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of 
this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.1 8 – FLIGHT DELAY : 
a. Coverage  
In the event of delay of the airlines, whilst on a Trip, at any airport specified in the Insured Person’s main travel 
booking,  the policy shall reimburse the Insured Person for  any  reasonable  and  necessary  expenses  incurred 
on any alternate travel b ooking under any mode of transport(but travel booking superior to original category is 
not covered) post deduction of compensation offered by service provider/common carrier or through any other 
source, for travelling to the next Intended Destination as pe r Insured person’s main travel booking up to the 
limit of Sum Insured  specified  in the Policy schedule/ Certificate, if such delay is caused due to any of the 
following reasons:  
1. Inclement Weather  
2. Any Strike, riots, industrial action at the Port or relating to the Common Carrier  
3. Delay by the Airlines  
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  
1. The Insured Person shall submit to the Company sufficient proof to substantiate the reason for such 
delay of the Common Carrier, unless this proof  is available to the Company directly from a reliable 
source in the public domain;  
2. The delay of the Common Carrier is in excess of the number of hours specified in the Policy 
Certificate from the scheduled time of the Common Carrier at the Port.  
3. The maximu m liability of the company under this cover during the policy period shall be the sum insured 
as specified in the Policy schedule/ Certificate, irrespective of whether the po licy is Single Trip or Multi 
Trip Policy.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Flight Delay:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment  for a ny claim under this Benefit of the Policy in 
respect of an Insured Person, directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to any of the 
following:  
1. Delayed arrival of the Insured Person or Travelling Companion  
2. Any delayed departure caused by a Strike or industrial action known to exist or capable of being 
anticipated at the time the Trip was booked.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 44 of 101 
 
3. If the Common Carrier is taken out of service on the instruction of the Civil Aviation Authority, or 
any other governmental authority.  
4. Any exclusion  mentioned in the “General Exclusions” Section of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.18A  – FLIGHT DELAY ON BENEFIT BASIS : 
 
a. Coverage  
In the event of delay of the airlines, whilst on a Trip, at any airport specified in the Insured Person’s main travel 
booking,  the policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy 
schedule/certificate , for travelling to the next Intended Destination as per Insur ed person’s main travel booking,  
if such delay is caused due to any of the following reasons:  
 
a. Inclement Weather  
b. Any Strike, riots, industrial action at the Port or relating to the Common Carrier  
c. Delay by the Airlines  
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  
1. The Insured P erson shall submit to the Company sufficient proof to substantiate the reason for such 
delay of the Common Carrier, unless this proof is available to the Company directly from a reliable 
source in the public domain;  
2. The delay of the Common Carrier is in ex cess of the number of hours specified in the Policy 
Certificate from the scheduled time of the Common Carrier at the Port.  
3. The Company ’s maximum liability for payment of a claim under the cover shall be once during the Single 
Trip. In an annual multi trip,  the sum insured shall be paid once during every trip undertaken during the 
policy period in the event of flight delay.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Flight Delay  on benefit basis : 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under this Benefit of the Policy in 
respect of an Insured Person, di rectly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to any of the 
following:  
1. Delayed arrival of the Insured Person or Travelling Companion  
2. Any delayed departure caused by a Strike or industrial action known to exist or capable of being 
anticipated at  the time the Trip was booked.  
3. If the Common Carrier is taken out of service on the instruction of the Civil Aviation Authority, or 
any other governmental authority.  
4. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” Section of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.19  – OVER BOOKED -COMMON CARRIER  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 45 of 101 
 
If the insured/ insured person is denied boarding of an aircraft on a commercial scheduled common carrier due to 
over -booking, and no alternative transportation is made available within 6/12 hours opted as deductible and 
mentioned in the policy certificate, of the scheduled departure time of such ﬂight, the policy will indemnify the 
insured for expenses incurred, by evidence of bills/receipts in respect of hotel accommodation up to a maximum 
of three (3) nights,  if not provided  by the Carrier  or any other  third  party  and purchase  of a new ticket, less refund, if 
any, obtained from the Carrier, subject to the Sum Insured speciﬁed  against  this Section  in the Schedule  to the Policy.  
The over -booked  ﬂight details  to be obtained  by the insured  must  be veriﬁed  in writing  by the operators  of the  airline  
or their  handling  agents.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions  applicable to Over Booked -Common Carrier (Airways):  
This beneﬁt does not cover any other loss other than those  mentioned above under  the head  “coverage”,  directly  
in whole  or in part,  including  loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' 
section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.19A  – OVER BOOKED -COMMON CARRIER ON BENEFIT BASIS  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
If the insured/ insured person is denied boarding of an aircraft on a commercial scheduled common carrier due to 
over -booking, and no alternative transportation is made available within 6/12 hours opted as deductible and 
mentioned in the policy certificate , of the scheduled departure time of such ﬂight, the policy will  pay a fixed benefit 
equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate . The over -booked  ﬂight details  to be 
obtained  by the insured  must  be veriﬁed  in writing  by the operators  of the  airline  or their  handling  agents.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclu sions applicable to  Over Booked -Common Carrier  on benefit basis  (Airways):  
This beneﬁt does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under  the head  “coverage”,  directly , 
in whole  or in part,  including  loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' 
section  of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.2 0 – BOUNCED HOTEL BOOKING : 
a. Coverage  
In the event of hotel booking at destination point(s) being bounced i.e. Insured Person(s) could not obtain hotel 
accommodation services already booked for him on conﬁrmed basis with the suppliers / agents within India due 
to non -supply of services, the Insurance Company shall  reimburse  to the extent  of 80%  of following  expenses:  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 46 of 101 
 
a. Reasonable cost of Transportation expenses to the alternative hotel in the  same  location.  
b. The diﬀerence of cost in up gradation to a superior class of accommodation, wherever alternate 
accommodation is not available on the cost of pre -booked hotel. For this beneﬁt the Insured shall be 
required  to furnish  proof  that  the alternate  accommodation  on the cost of  pre-booked  hotel  is not 
available  in the same  location  in the form  of a certiﬁcate  issued  by the Alternate  Accommodation  Service  
Provider  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Bounced  Hotel Booking:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy for:  
1. Changes in plans by the Insured/ Insured Person, an immediate family member,  or travelling  companion  
for any reason.  
2. Adverse change in ﬁnancial circumstances of the Insured/ Insured Person,  any family  member,  or a 
travelling  companion.  
3. Any business or contractual obligations of the Insured/Insured Person, any  family  member,  or a travelling  
companion,  except  for termination  or layoﬀ of employment of the Insured/Insured  Person or the 
travelling companion  of the Insured  as deﬁned  above.  
4. Default  by the person,  agency,  or tour  operator  from  whom  the Insured  / Insured  Person  bought  this Policy  
and/or  made  travel  arrangements.  
5. Any government  regulation  or prohibition.  
6. An event  or circumstance,  which  occurs  prior  to the commencement  of the  period  of insurance.  
7. On account  of a felonious  assault,  where  the Insured/Insured  Person,  any family  member  of the 
Insured/Insured  Person,  the travelling  companion or travelling companion's family member has been a 
principal or accessory  in the assault  committed.  
8. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special condition applicable to Bounced Hotel Booking:  
In the event that claims are submitted  for Bounced Hotel Booking as  well as under the optional cover – Loss of 
Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airways) (if opted) , the higher  of the claims shall be payable by the Company during  
any one period  of insurance.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.21  – TRAVEL INCONVENIENCE : 
 
a. Coverage  
In the event of Trip cancellation or Interruption of a covered trip due to necessary and  unavoidable  reasons  as stated  
below,  the policy will reimburse  the insured subject to the limits shown in the policy schedule/certificate, for loss of 
personal  accommodation, any sightseeing booked in advance, cruise ticket and travel charges paid or contracted 
to be paid by the insured, which are not recoverable from any other source.  
 
1. When  Insured’s  Principal  residence  and/or  his intended  place  of stay at destination is rendered 
uninhabitable due to Fire, ﬂood, vandalism or natural disaster and also his place of business is rendered 
inoperative due to operation  of said perils.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 47 of 101 
 
2. Termination  of employment  or layoﬀ  aﬀecting  the insured  provided  that the  insured  have  been  employed  
with  the same  employer  for at least  ﬁve continuous  years  without  any break.  
3. The Insured  and/or  his immediate  family  member  have  become  victim  of Felonious  Assault  10 days  prior  
to the departure  date  provided  he/they are  not principal  or an accessory  in such  felonious  assault.  
4. Inclement weather / climatic condition in the city or primary place of departure  and / or at intended  
destination.  
5. Civil Unrest, Riot and Strike in the home city and/or at departing station and/or intended destination (as 
deﬁned in the policy) of the Insured making  the trip impossible,  provided  that 
 The Govt.  of India  issues  a travel  advisory.  
 Airport is shut down forcing the Airline to delay the ﬂight for more than  24 hours  or to cancel  the ﬂight.  
 Curfew  is imposed  by the City Administration.  
6. Terrorist Attack in the home city and/or at departing station and/or destination listed on the insured’s 
itinerary 3 days prior to the Insured’s departure date and resulting that the Insured is unable to move out 
consequent  upon  such terrorist  attack.  
7. Compulsory quarantine or prevention of travel by Government of India  
 
b. Beneﬁts under Travel Inconvenience:  
 
1. TRIP CANCELLATION BENEFITS : When the insured risk occurs before departure, the policy provides 
reimbursement of the entire non-refundable, cancelled  portion  of the travel  arrangements  (As per coverage’s  
shown  in the policy schedule/certificate) i.e. Flight and/or Hotel Booking and/or other incidental expenses for 
which the insured has or contracted to be paid prior to his depa rture and which are not recoverable from any 
source, subject otherwise to the terms, conditions, limitations, exclusions and limit  of Sum  Insured  opted  under  
the Policy.  
 
2. TRIP INTERRUPTION BENEFIT : The policy will reimburse up to the  Maximum  Limit  as speciﬁed  in the Policy  
Schedule/certificate  for the Trips  that have been interrupted or delayed due to operation of Insured Peril as 
mentioned hereinabove. The policy will reimburse for the forfeited, non -refundable unused prepaid expenses 
made prior to Insured’s departure  date  and additional  reasonable  and necessary  transportation expenses  
incurred  by him / her plus accommodation  expenses  maximum up  to INR.  3,000  per night  for 
 Return  to City of Residence  in India  
 Re-joining  the remaining trip after its interruption during the period of  trip.  Due to operation  of any of the 
insured  peril.  
 
However,  the beneﬁts  payable  under  this cover shall  not exceed  the cost of economy airfare by the most direct route 
less any refunds paid or payable.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.   
 
c. Specific Exclusions applicable to Travel Inconvenience:  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection with or in respect of any 
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insu red Person for:  
 
a. Travel arrangements being cancelled or changed by any airline, cruise line  or the tour  operator  beyond  
insured  peril  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 48 of 101 
 
b. Voluntary changes in travel plans by the Insured giving rise to a claim under  this section.  
c. Any business  or contractual  obligations  of the Insured  and/or  any family member except for termination 
or lay oﬀ of employment as deﬁned above provided insured is not the Owner, proprietor, Majority 
Shareholder  and Director  of the said company.  
d. Termination  of employment  due to any unlawful  act of the insured.  
e. Default  / insolvency  by and of the person,  agency  or tour  operator  from whom  the Insured  had bought  his 
Travel  arrangements.  
f. Any governmental regulations or prohibition imposed by any Administrative  Authority  at the time  or 
before  booking  of insured’s  travel arrangement.  
g. Booking of the trip is undertaken ignoring the adverse situation as published by the Mass Media, Union 
Government, State Government and/or any Administrative Authority for travel to particular country or 
part  of the country  which  may  give rise to a claim.  
h. Loss  of visa charges  shall  not be paid  under  this section.  
 
d. Specific Conditions applicable to Travel Inconvenience:  
a) It is a condition  precedent  to liability  hereunder  that in the event  of any occurrence likely to give rise to a 
claim under this Insurance, that the Insured Person must notify insurer immediately. While notifying the 
occurrence, the insured person must quote as much as information concerning  the occurrence  as is 
available  including  policy  number  and its date  of issue.  
b) It shall  be the responsibility  of Insured  to take  appropriate  action  to avoid or  minimize  any potential  claim  
under  policy  (e.g.  avoid  intentional  delay during interruption or not to travel to the country or part thereof 
for which  warning  has been  issued.)  
c) The insured must not be aware of any reason (as stated in the list of covered  risks)  at the time  of opting  of 
this extension  that may  give rise to a claim  under  the policy.  
d) The company’s liability shall be restricted to the sum insured opted by the  Insured  or the sum  of total  non-
refundable  amount  whichever  is less.  
e) In case  of partial  cancellation  of the trip,  i.e. if only  one or two members’ trip  is cancelled  on account  of 
operation  of Insured  peril,  the company’s liability shall be restricted to the non -refundable portion of 
insured’s travel  tickets  only  and not for Hotel  Charges  unless  exclusive  booking  was made for each member. 
No partial charges of Hotel Booking for reduction  in number  of members  will be allowed  in such  cases.  
f) If the situation becomes normal against the alert of Quarantine issued earlier  by the Govt.  of India  or if the 
prevention  of travel  is withdrawn  by Govt. of India before the departure date mention in the schedule of 
policy and this information is available for the knowledge of General Public through any communication, 
the company shall not be liable for any claim  in respect  of such  perils.  
g) Operation of any of insured peril shall be considered only at the time of travel  for all practical  purposes  in 
settlement  of claims.  
 
Endorsement no.2 1A – TRAVEL INCONVENIENCE ON BENEFIT BASIS : 
 
a. Coverage  
In the event of Trip cancellation or Interruption of a covered trip due to necessary and  unavoidable  reasons  as stated  
below,  the policy will pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate . 
 
1. When  Insured’s  Principal  residence  and/or  his intended  place  of stay at destination is rendered 
uninhabitable due to Fire, ﬂood, vandalism or natural disaster and also his place of business is rendered 
inoperative due to operation  of said perils.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 49 of 101 
 
2. Termination  of employment  or layoﬀ  aﬀecting  the insured  provided  that the  insured  have  been  employed  
with  the same  employer  for at least  ﬁve continuous  years  without  any break.  
3. The Insured  and/or  his immediate  family  member  have  become  victim  of Felonious  Assault  10 days  prior  to 
the departure  date  provided  he/they are  not principal  or an accessory  in such  felonious  assault.  
4. Inclement weather / climatic condition in the city or primary place of departure  and / or at intended  
destination.  
5. Civil Unrest, Riot and Strike in the home city and/or at departing station and/or intended destination (as 
deﬁned in the policy) of the Insured making  the trip impossible,  provided  that 
a. The Govt.  of India  issues  a travel  advisory.  
b. Airport is shut down forcing the Airline to delay the ﬂight for more than  24 hours  or to cancel  the 
ﬂight.  
c. Curfew  is imposed  by the City Administration.  
6. Terrorist Attack in the home city and/or at departing station and/or destination listed on the insured’s 
itinerary 3 days prior to the Insured’s departure date and resulting that the Insured is unable to move out 
conseq uent  upon  such  terrorist  attack.  
7. Compulsory quarantine or prevention of travel by Government of India  
 
b. Beneﬁts under Travel Inconvenience  on Benefit basis : 
 
a. TRIP CANCELLATION BENEFITS  
b. TRIP INTERRUPTION BENEFIT  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.   
 
c. Specific Exclusions applicable to Travel Inconvenience  on benefit basis : 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this beneﬁt in connection with or in respect of any 
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insured Person for:  
 
1. Travel arrangements being cancelled or changed by any airline, cruise line  or the tour  operator  beyond  
insured  peril  
2. Voluntary changes in travel plans by the Insured giving rise to a claim under  this section.  
3. Any business  or contractual  obligations  of the Insured  and/or  any family member except for termination 
or lay oﬀ of employment as deﬁned above provided insured is not the Owner, proprietor, Majority 
Shareholder  and Director  of the said company.  
4. Termination  of employment  due to any unlawful  act of the insured.  
5. Default  / insolvency  by and of the person,  agency  or tour  operator  from whom  the Insured  had bought  his 
Travel  arrangements.  
6. Any governmental regulations or prohibition imposed by any Administrative  Authority  at the time  or 
before  booking  of insured’s  travel arrangement.  
7. Booking of the trip is undertaken ignoring the adverse situation as published by the Mass Media, Union 
Government, State Government and/or any Administrative Authority for travel to particular country or 
part  of the country  which  may  give rise to a claim.  
8. Loss  of visa charges  shall  not be paid  under  this section.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 50 of 101 
 
d. Specific Conditions applicable to Travel Inconvenience  on benefit basis : 
a. It is a condition  precedent  to liability  hereunder  that in the event  of any occurrence likely to give rise to a 
claim under this Insurance, that the Insured Person must notify insurer immediately. While notifying the 
occurrence, the insured person must quote as much as information concerning  the occurrence  as is 
available  including  policy  number  and its date  of issue.  
b. It shall  be the responsibility  of Insured  to take  appropriate  action  to avoid or  minimize  any potential  claim  
under  policy  (e.g.  avoid  intentional  delay during interruption or not to travel to the country or part thereof 
for which  warning  has been  issued.)  
c. The insured must not be aware of any reason (as stated in the list of covered  risks)  at the time  of opting  of 
this extension  that may  give rise to a claim  under  the policy.  
d. The company’s liability shall be restricted to the sum insured opted by the  Insured.  
e. If the situation becomes normal against the alert of Quarantine issued earlier  by the Govt.  of India  or if the 
prevention  of travel  is withdrawn  by Govt. of India before the departure date mention in the schedule of 
policy and this information is available for the knowledge of General Public through any communication, 
the company shall not be liable for any claim  in respect  of such  perils.  
f. Operation of any of insured peril shall be considered only at the time of travel  for all practical  purposes  in 
settlement  of claims.  
 
Endorsement no. 22 – TRAVEL SERVICE SUPPLIER INSOLVENCY : 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse the below stated expenses incurred by  the insured in case of pre booked tour by 
paying an advance with an Travel Service Provider located at the intended destination(s), provided an Travel 
Service Provider turns insolvent and the insured/insured person does not get intended service. This bene fit is 
limited up to the limit of sum Insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate.  
 
1. The company will pay the reasonable cost of such rearrangement but not exceeding the cost that the 
insured has already incurred for intended journey and should be for the same standard of 
transportation and accommodation as was originally booked by the Insured for intended journey.  
2. In case of cancellation of journey because of non -rearrangement of Scheduled journey, the company 
shall be liable only up to the extent of non -refundable cost of unused travels for which the Insured has 
already paid, including agent’s fee for such cancellation but limited to the amount of commission the 
agent had earned on pre -paid refundable amount of cancelled travel arrangements.  
3. Any additional expenses necessarily incurred on returning to Insured’s home including reasonable 
hotel accommodation and transport expenses  
 
b. Specific Exclusion applicable to Travel Service Supplier Insolve ncy:  
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this Section  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. If Insolvency of a travel services provider if at the relevant time, the travel services provider was insolvent 
or a reasonable person would have reason to expect the travel services provider mig ht become insolvent.  
2. Claims arising directly from war, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities or warlike operations (whether war be 
declared or not), civil war, rebellion, insurrection, civil commotion assuming the proportions of or 
amounting to an uprising,  military or usurped power;  
3. Accommodation expenses incurred after the pre -decided return date of the trip to insured’s town.  
4. Any other loss falling under the General Exclusions of the Policy  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 51 of 101 
 
c. Co -Payment applicable to Travel Service Supplier Insolvency : 
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co -payment as specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate. Co -Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every 
claim.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.2 3 – CAR RENTAL EXCESS INSURANCE : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse to the Insured/ Insured Person up to the limit of sum Insured as specified in the policy 
schedule/certificate the “Excess Amount” that the  Insured is obliged to pay arising from physical loss of or 
damage to the rental car whilst in the Insured’s control and custody during the covered trip. This policy covers 
the Excess Charge following the theft or damage to Rental car including the underca rriage, windows and tyres.  
The policy will also reimburse to the Insured for the costs of followings for which the Insured is liable in case of 
insured event:  
 
1. CAR RENTAL KEY COVER : Replacing a lost or stolen rental car key, including replacement of locks  and 
locksmith charges up to 20% of limit of indemnity under this section  
2. MISFUELING COVER : Cleaning out the engine and fuel system and associated towing costs up to 20% of 
the limit of indemnity as mentioned in the schedule, in case the Insured put wrong type of fuel in its 
rented vehicle,  
3. TOWING COSTS COVER : Towing or recovery costs following an accident or breakdown involving the 
Rental Vehicle, up to a maximum of 20% of the limit of indemnity under this section.  
 
b. Co -Payment applicable to Car Rental Excess Insurance : 
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co -payment as specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate. Co -Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every 
claim.  
 
This be nefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES THE TOTAL PAYMENT FOR ALL ABOVE CONTINGENCIES SHALL EXCEED THE LIMIT AS 
SHOWN IN THE SCHEDULE OF POLICY UNDER THIS SECTION  
 
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Car Rental excess Insuran ce: 
1. All insured drivers must hold a valid and effective driving license, or hold a fully recognized license which 
must be effective at the time of incident.  
2. Except with the written consent of the insurers, no person is entitled to admit liability on their behalf or to 
give any representations or other undertakings binding upon them. The insurer shall be entitled to the 
absolute conduct, control and settlement of all proceedings arising out of or in connection with claims in 
the name of the insured person.  
3. The insurers may at their option take proceedings in the name of the insured person to recover 
compensation from any Third party in respect of any indemnity provided under this insurance and any 
amounts so recovered shall belong to the insurers and the insu red person shall render all reasonable 
assistance to the insurers.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 52 of 101 
 
4. The cover under this section will incept from the time the Insured Person takes legal control of Rental Car 
and will cease at the time Rental Agency assumes back control of rented car, subj ect always to the 
condition that the custody of such rental car with the Insured Person is during the period of his covered 
Trip only.  
 
 d. Specific Exclusions  applicable to Car Rental Excess Insurance:  
The Company shall not be liable in respect of any claim made of:  
1. Loss or destruction of or damage to any property whatsoever, or any liability, loss or exposure 
whatsoever resulting or arising there from or any consequential loss directly caused by or contributed to 
or arising  from  
(a) ionizing radiation or c ontamination by radioactivity from any Nuclear fuel or any waste and the 
combustion of nuclear fuel  or 
(b) the radioactive toxic explosive or other hazardous properties  or any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear 
component thereof.  
2. Operation of the vehicle in  violation of the terms of the rental  agreement.  
3. Automobiles, or other vehicles, which are not rental vehicles and not rented from a licensed rental  agency.  
1. whether by the Insured  Person  or by any person  acting  on behalf  of the Insured  Person.  
2. Any loss falling  under  the ‘General  Exclusions’  Section  of the Policy.  
4. The rental of certain vehicles namely, motor homes, trailers or caravans, vans, trucks, non -passenger 
carrying vehicles, vehicles that  carry  more  than  9 people  including  the driver,  motorcycles,  mopeds,  
motorbikes,  off-road  vehicles  and recreational  vehicles.  
5. Expenses reimbursed by the insured person's employers'  Insurer.  
6. Applicable to car rental key cover – replacement of locks when only the parts need to be  changed.  
7. Applicable to misfueling cov er – repair or replacement of any mechanical part or damage to engine 
arising from the use of the incorrect fuel, i.e. only cleaning charges are payable under this  section.  
 
Endorsement no. 24 – PERSONAL LIABILITY : 
 
a. Coverage  
The Company shall indemnify the Insured/ Insured Person towards legal liability of the Insured/ Insured Person to a 
third party for an incident which results in accidental death, injury or damage to the health or property of such third 
party whilst on a tr ip during the period of insurance covered by this Policy, up to the limits speciﬁed in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate. The incident leading to the legal liability of the Insured/ Insured Person should have occurred 
during the period of insurance and whils t on a trip covered by this Policy.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions  applicabl e to Personal Liability:  
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this Section  in respect of  the following:  
 
1 Any claim  arising  from  Insured’s/  Insured  Person’s  personal  contractual liability  or through  promises  made  
by the Insured/  Insured  Person.  
2 Any claim of personal liability of the Insured/ Insured Person towards his/her  family,  relations  and travelling  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 53 of 101 
 
companions,  whether  personal  or oﬃcial.  
3 Any claim resulting from transmission of an  illness or disease by the Insured/  Insured  Person.  
4 Any claim for damage resulting from professional activities/ sports involving  the Insured/  Insured  Person.  
5 Any claim  for liability,  arising  directly   from  or due to: 
a) possession of animals, birds, reptiles, insects etc. and their by - products  like skin,  hair,  feathers,  horns,  
fur, ivory,  bones,  eggs,  etc. 
b) ownership or possession of vehicles, aircrafts, water crafts, or activities of the insured/insured person 
involving parachuting, hand -gliding,  hot air ballooning  or use of ﬁre arms.  
c) Any willful,  negligent,  malicious  or unlawful  act. 
d) Insanity, the use of any alcohol/drugs (except as medically prescribed)  or drug  addiction.  
e) Any supply of goods or services on the part of the Insured/Insured Person.  
f) Any ownership or occupation of land or buildings other than the occupation  of any temporary  
residence.  
6 Any exclusion mentioned in the ‘General Exclusions’ section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special Conditions  applicable to Personal Liability:  
 
1 The Company shall be responsible for contesting unjustiﬁed claims against the Insured/Insured Person 
and providing indemnity for the damages,  which  the Insured/Insured  Person  has to pay. For indemnity  to 
be provided against damages, the damages must be payable under an acceptance of liability given or 
approved by the Company or under a judicial  decision  rendered  by a Court  of Law.  
2 If there is a legal action in process against the Insured/Insured Person over a personal liability issue, the 
Company may conduct the legal action, including appointment of legal counsel, at the Company’s 
expense in the name of the Insured/Insured Person at the Company’s sole  discretion.  
3 The Company will have the right, but in no case the obligation, to take over  and conduct  in the name  of 
the Insured/Insured  Person  the defense of any claim and will have full discretion in the conduct of any 
proceedings and in the settlement of any claim and having taken over the  defense  of any claim,  the 
Company  may  relinquish  the same.  
4 In the event the Company, in its sole discretion, chooses to exercise it s right in pursuance of this condition, 
no action taken by the Company in the  exercise  of such  right  will serve  to modify  or expand  in any manner, 
what  the Company’s  liability  or obligations  under  this Policy  would  have otherwise been had it not 
exercised its rights under these Special Conditions.  
 
Endorsement no. 25 – LEGAL EXPENSES:  
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse the legal costs and expenses incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person, as the case may 
be, towards claims for from third parties for compensation for accidental death or disablement arising due to an 
injury, whilst on a trip, up to the limits speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule.  
 
The beneﬁt under the Section is limited to the Sum Insured as speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule/certificate.  
 
A De ductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 54 of 101 
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Legal Expenses:  
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this beneﬁt  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. Any existing  physical  disability.  
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due  to intake of 
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics,  hallucinogens.  
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning  except  where  these  arise  
from  an accident.  
4. Any payment  under  this beneﬁt  whereby  the Company's  liability  would exceed  the sum  payable  in the event  
of accidental  death.  
5. Any other  claim  after  a claim  for accidental  death  has been  admitted  by the  Company  and becomes  payable.  
6. Any claim  which  arises  out of an accident  connected  with  the operation of an aircraft  (Including  Cabin  Crew)  
or which  occurs  during  parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is ﬂying as a Fare Paying 
passenger in a multi -engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter  company.  
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement  of the Insured/Insured  
Person  from;  
a. intentional  self-injury,  suicide,  or attempted  suicide.  
b. whilst  under  the inﬂuence  of intoxication,  liquor  or drugs.  
c. arising  or resulting  from  the insured/insured  person  committing  any breach of law with criminal 
intent or participating in an actual or  attempted  felony,  riot,  crime,  misdemeanour  or civil 
commotion.  
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing, 
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand  gliding,  mountaineering  or rock  climbing,  potholing,  
abseiling, deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless speciﬁcally covered  and duly  
mentioned  in the Policy  Schedule.  
8. Any consequential  loss or damage  cost or expense  of whatsoever  nature.  
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly  caused by, contributed  to or aggravated  or prolonged  
by childbirth,  maternity  or pregnancy  or in consequence  thereof,  venereal  disease  or inﬁrmity.  
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured 
Person, due to or arising out of or directly connected with or traceable to act of terrorism or terrorist  
activities.  
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.26  – HOME BURGLARY INSURANCE (CONTENTS) : 
a. Coverage  
This Section  provides  for indemnity,  against  any loss,  destruction  or damage  to the contents  of the Insured’s  home  in 
India  caused  by burglary  and/or  housebreaking speciﬁed  hereunder  whilst  the Insured  is on a trip covered  by the 
Policy.  
 
The maximum amount payable under this Section as indemnity is limited to the Sum Insured as speciﬁed in the 
Policy Schedule /certificate  in any one period of insurance irrespective of the number of such incidents or 
occurrences arising out of such incidents.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 55 of 101 
 
 
Jewellery  kept  in safe will be covered  under  this beneﬁt  as part  of contents  up to 20%  of the Sum  Insured  as speciﬁed  
in the Policy  Schedule  or actuals  whichever  is less.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Home Burglary Insurance (contents):  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy for:  
 
1. Loss or damage caused by the Insured/Insured Person's and/or Insured/Insured  Person's  employee(s)  or 
agents  and/  or Insured/Insured Person's  Family  member's  direct  or indirect  involvement  in the actual  or 
attempted  burglary.  
2. Any loss or damage  to, or on account  of loss of, livestock,  motor  vehicles, pedal  cycles,  money,  securities  for 
money,  stamp,  bullion,  deeds,  bonds, bills  of exchange,  promissory  notes,  stock  or share  certiﬁcates,  business 
books, manuscripts, documents of any kind, ATM debit or credit cards, precious  stones  that are not part  of 
jewellery  or ornaments,  gold  bullion (unless previously speciﬁcally declared to, and accepted by, the Company  
in writing.  
3. Loss or damage to any property/item illegally acquired, kept, stored or property  subject  to forfeiture  in any 
manner  whatsoever.  
4. Loss  or damage  which  is recoverable  under  Fire or Plate  Glass  Insurance Policy  or any other  policy.  
5. Loss or damage directly or indirectly, proximately or remotely occasioned  by or which  arises  out of or in 
connection  with  riot and strike, civil commotion, terrorist activities, earthquake, ﬂood, storm, volcanic eruption, 
typhoon, hurricane, tornado, cyclone or other convulsions of nature  or atmospheric  disturbances.  
6. Consequential  loss or legal  liability  of any kind.  
7. Loss  of money  and/or  other  property  abstracted  from  safe following  the use  of the key to the said safe or any 
duplicate  thereof  belonging  to the Insured,  unless  such  key has been  obtained  by assault  or violence  or any 
threat  thereof.  
8. Loss of or damage to any property insured under this Policy due to any misfeasance, malfeasance or 
nonfeasance or breach of trust in relation thereto  by the Insured.  
9.    Any exclusion mentioned in the ‘General Exclusions’ section of this Policy.  
 
Terrorism Damage Exclusion Warranty:  
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary within this insurance it is agreed that this insurance excludes loss, 
damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by, resulting from or in connection with 
any act of terrorism regardless of any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to 
the loss.  
 
For the purpose of this endorsement an act of terrorism means an act, including but not limited to the use of force 
of violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or group(s) of persons whether acting alone or on behalf of or 
in connection with any o rganization(s) or government(s), committed  for political,  religious,  ideological  or similar  
purpose  including  the intention  to inﬂuence  any government  and/or  to put the public,  or any section of the public  in 
fear.  
 
The warranty also excludes loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by, 
resulting from or in connection with any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way relating to 
action taken in respect of any act of terrorism.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 56 of 101 
 
If the Company  alleges  that by reason  of this exclusion,  any loss,  damage,  cost or expenses is not covered by this 
insurance the burden of proving the contrary  shall  be upon  the Insured.  
 
In the event any portion of this endorsement is found to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder shall remain in 
full force and e ﬀect. 
 
Endorsement no.27  –CHOLA MS BHARAT GRIHA RAKSHA POLICY : 
 
Special meaning of certain words: Words stated in the table below have a special meaning thro ughout this Policy, 
the Policy Schedule and Endorsements.  
These words with special meaning are stated in the Policy with the first letter in capitals.  
Word /s  Specific meaning  
Bank  A bank or any financial institution  
Carpet Area  1. for the main  building  unit of Your  Home,  it is the net usable floor area, excluding the 
area covered by the external walls, areas under services shafts, exclusive balcony 
or verandah area and exclusive open terrace area, but including the area covered 
by the internal partition walls of the residential  unit;  
2. for any enclosed  structure  on the same  site,  it is the net usable floor area of such 
structure;  and 
3. for any balcony, verandah area, terrace  area, parking area, or any enclosed structure 
that is part of  Your  Home,  it is 25%  of its net usable  floor  area.  
Commencement 
Date  It is the date and time from which the insurance cover under this  Policy  begins.  
It is shown in the Policy Schedule.  
Cost of Construction  The amount required to construct Your Home Building at the Commencement Date.  
This amount is calculated as follows:  
a. For residential  structure  of Your  Home  including Fittings and  Fixtures : 
Carpet Area of the structure in square metres X Rate of Cost of Construction at the 
Commencement Date. The Rate of Cost of Construction is the prevailing rate of cost of 
construction of Your Home Building at the Commencement   Date   as d e c l a r e d  by 
You and accepted by Us and shown in the Policy  schedule.  
 
b. For additional structures : the amount that is based on the prevailing rate of Cost 
of Construction  at the Commencement Date as declared by You  and 
accepted by Us.  
Endorsement  A written amendment to the Policy that We make (additions, deletions, modifications, 
exclusions or conditions of an insurance Policy) which may change the terms or scope of 
the original policy.  
Home Contents  Those articles or things in Your Home that are not permanently attached or  fixed to the 
structure of Your Home. Home Contents may consist of General Contents and/or Valuable 
Contents.  
General Contents  General Contents are all the contents of household use in Your Home, e.g., furniture, 
electronic items and goods, antennae, sola r panels, water storage equipment, kitchen 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 57 of 101 
 
equipment, electrical equipment (including those fitted on walls ), clothing and apparel  
and items of similar nature.  
Valuable Contents  Valuable Contents of Your Home consist of items such as jewellery, silverware, paintings, 
works of art, antique items, curios and items of similar nature.  
Insured  The Person/s who has/have purchased Insurance Cover under this Policy.  
Insured Property  Your Home Building and Home Contents, or any item of property covered by this Policy.  
Kutcha Construction  Building(s) having walls and/or roofs of wooden planks/thatched leaves and/or grass/hay 
of any kind/bamboo/plastic cloth/asphalt/canvas/tarpaulin and the like.  
Word /s  Specific meaning  
Policy Period  Policy period means the period commencing from the effective date and time as shown 
in the Policy Schedule and terminating at Midnight on the expiry date as shown in the 
Policy Schedule or on the termination of or the cancellation of insurance as provided for 
in Clause G (III) of this Policy, whichever is earlier.  
Policy Schedule  The document accompanying and forming part of the Policy that gives Your details and 
of Your insurance cover, as described in Clause A (3) of this Policy.  
Premium  The premium is the amount You  pay Us for this insurance. The Policy Schedule shows the 
amount of premium for the Policy Period and all other taxes and levies.  
Pucca Construction  Construction other than Kutcha Construction.  
Spouse  Your wife or husband.  
Sum Insured  The amount shown as Sum Insured in the Policy Schedule and as described in Clause C (4) 
and Clause D (2) of this Policy. It represents Our maximum liability for each cover or part 
of cover and for each  
loss.  
Total Loss  A  situation  where  the  Insured  Property  or  item   is completely destroyed, lost or 
damaged beyond retrieval  or repair  or the cost of repairing  it is more  than the Sum Insured 
for that item or in total.  
We, Us, Our, Insurer  The Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Ltd. Insurance Company that has 
provided Insurance Cover under this Policy; of the Company.  
You, Your, Insured  The Insured  Person/s  who  has/have  purchased Insurance  Cover  
under  this Policy;  of such  Insured Person/s.  
Your Home Building  Your Home Building is a building consisting of a residential unit, having an enclosed 
structure and a roof, basement (if any) and used as a dwelling place described in detail as 
per Clause C (2) of this Policy . 
 
Clause B. Insured Events  
We give insurance cover for physical loss or damage, or destruction caused to Insured Property by the following 
unforeseen events occurring during the Policy Period.  
The events covered are given in Column A and those not covered in respect of these events are given in Column 
B. 
 Column A  Colu mn B  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 58 of 101 
 
 We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction 
caused to the  Insured Property  by We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction 
caused to the Insured Property  
1. Fire caused by burning of Insured Property by order of 
any Public Authority.  
2. Explosion or Implosion  - 
3. Lightning  - 
4. Earthquake, volcanic eruption, or other 
convulsions of nature  - 
5. Storm, Cyclone, Typhoon,  Tempest, Hurricane, 
Tornado, Tsunami,  Flood and  Inundation  - 
 
 Column A  Column B  
 We cover physical loss or damage,  or destruction 
caused to the  Insured Property  by We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction 
caused to the Insured Property  
6. Subsidence of the land on which Your Home 
Building stands, Landslide, Rockslide  caused by  
a. normal cracking, settlement or  bedding down 
of new  structures,  
b. the settlement or movement of made up  
ground,  
c. coastal or river  erosion,  
d. defective  design  or 
workmanship or use of defective materials,  or 
e. demolition,  construction, 
structural alterations or repair of any property, 
or groundworks or excavations.  
7. Bush fire, Forest fire, Jungle fire  - 
8. Impact damage of any kind, i.e., damage caused 
by impact of, or collision caused by any external 
physical object (e.g. vehicle, falling trees, aircraft, 
wall etc.)  caused by pressure waves caused by aircraft or 
other aerial or space  devices travelling at sonic or 
supersonic speeds.  
9. Missile testing operations  - 
  10. Riot, Strikes, Malicious Damages  caused by  
a. temporary or permanent dispossession, 
confiscation, commandeering, requisition or 
destruction by order of the government or any 
lawful authority,  
or 
b. temporary or permanent dispossession of Your 
Home by unlawful occupation by any person.  
11 Acts of terrorism  
(Coverage as per Terrorism Clause attached)  Exclusions  and Excess  as per 
Terrorism Clause  attached.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 59 of 101 
 
 We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction 
caused to the Insured Property by  We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction 
caused to the Insured Property  
12. Bursting or overflowing of water tanks, apparatus 
and pipes.   
- 
13. Leakage from automatic sprinkler installations.  a. repairs or alterations in Your Home or the 
building in which Your Home is located,  
b. repairs, removal or extension of any sprinkler 
installation, or  
c. defects in the construction known to You.  
14. Theft within 7 (seven )days from the occurrence of 
and proximately caused by any of the above 
Insured Events.  if it is  
a. of any article or thing outside Your Home, or  
b.  of any article or thing attached from the 
outside of the outer walls or the roof of Your 
Home, unless securely mounted.  
 
Clause C: Home Building Cover  
1. What We  cover  
We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction of Your Home Building  because of any Insured 
Event listed in Clause B of this Policy. We also cover architect’s, surveyor’s, consulting 
engineer’s fees, cost of removing debris as specified under Clause C (5) (f)  of this Policy. Further, 
We pay for Loss of rent and Rent for Al ternative Accommodation, which will be paid to the 
extent declared by You and agreed by Us as specified under Clause C (6)  of this Policy while 
Your Home Building is not fit for living following loss or damage due to an insured  event.  
2. Your Home Building  
a. Your Home Building is a building consisting of a residential unit, having an enclosed  
structure  and a roof,  basement  (if any)  and used  as a dwelling  place.  
b. Your Home Building includes  
i. fixtures and fittings permanently attached to the floor, walls or roof, like fixed 
sanitary fittings, electrical wiring and other permanent  fittings.  
ii. the following ‘additional structures’ if they are on the same site, and are used as part 
of Your Home  Building:  
a) garage, domestic out -houses used for residence, parking spaces or 
areas, if  any 
b) compound walls, fences, gates, retaining walls and internal roads,  
c) verandah or porch and the  like, 
d) septic  tanks,  bio-gas plants,  fixed  water  storage  units  or tanks,  
e) solar panels, wind turbines and air conditioning systems, central 
heating systems and the like, if not included in Home Contents Cover,  
iii. any other structure shown in the Policy  Schedule.  
 
c. Your Home Building does not include Contents of Your  Home.  
3. Use for residence  
a. We will pay only  if Your  Home  Building  is used  for the purpose  of residence  of Yourself and 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 60 of 101 
 
Your family, or of Your tenant, licensee or  employee.  
b. We will not pay  if 
i. Your Home Building is used as a holiday home, or for lodging and boarding,  or 
ii. Your Home Building or any part of Your Home Building is used for purposes other  
than residential except where it is used both for Your residence  and for the purposes  
of earning  Your  livelihood  if You are self- employed or You have shifted Your office to 
Your Home Building for a temporary period due to lockdown or closure of Your office 
ordered by  a public  authority.  
4. Sum Insured  
a. The Sum Insured for the Home Building Cover is the prevailing Cost of Construction of Your 
Home Building at the Commencement Date as  declared by You and accepted by Us and will 
be the maximum amount payable  in the event the Home Building is a Total  Loss.  
b. If the Policy  Period  is more  than  one year,  We will automatically  increase  Your Sum  Insured  
during  the Policy  Period  by 10%  per annum  on each  anniversary of  Your  Policy  without  
additional  premium  for a maximum  of 100%  of the Sum Insured at the Policy 
Commencement  Date.  
c. The Sum Insured will be automatically increased each day by an amount representing 
1/365th of 10% of Sum Insured at the Policy Commencement Date for annual  policies.  
d. Restoration of Sum Ins ured : Except as stated in Clause G (III) (3) (b) of this Policy, the 
insurance cover will at all times be maintained during the Policy Period to the full extent of 
the respective Sum Insured. This means that after We have paid for any loss, the policy sha ll 
be restored to the full original amount of Sum Insured. You must pay to Us proportionate 
premium for the unexpired Policy Period from the date of loss. We can also deduct this 
premium from the net claim that We must pay  You.  
5. What We  pay 
a. If You make a cl aim under the policy for damage to Your Home Building due to any of the 
insured perils, We reimburse the cost to repair it to a condition substantially  the same  as its 
condition  at the time  of damage.  You must  spend for repairs, and claim that amount from  
Us. 
b. We will calculate the amount of claim on the basis of the actual Carpet Area subject  to the 
Carpet  Area  not exceeding  that declared  by You in the Proposal Form and stated in the Policy  
Schedule.  
c. The maximum We will pay for all items together is the Sum Insured shown in the Policy 
Schedule for Home Building Cover. If the Policy Schedule shows any limit for any item, such 
limit is the maximum We will pay for that  item.  
d. If Your  Home  Building  is a Total Loss,  We will pay You the Sum  Insured  of the Home  Building.  
e. If only an additional structure is destroyed, We will pay You an amount equal to the Cost of 
Construction of the additional  structure.  
f. In addition to what Clause C (5) (c) of this Policy provides for, We will pay You the following  
expenses:  
i. up to 5% of the claim amount for reasonable fees of architect, surveyor, 
consulting  engineer;  
ii. up to 2 % of the claim  amount  for reasonable  costs  of removing  debris from the 
site.  
6. Loss of Rent and Rent for Alternative Accommodation: In addition to what Clause C (5) (c) of 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 61 of 101 
 
this Policy provides for , We will pay the amount of rent You lose or alternative rent You pay 
while Your Home Building is not fit for living because of physical lo ss arising out of an Insured 
Event as  follows:  
a. If You are living  in Your  Home  as a tenant,  and You are required  to pay higher rent for the 
alternative accommodation, We will pay the difference between the rent for alternative 
accommodation and the rent of Your Home  Building.  
b. We will pay the loss under  this cover  for an accommodation  that  is not superior to  Your  Home  
Building  in any way and in the same  city as Your  Home  Building.  
c. The    amount    of    lost    rent    shall    be    calculated     as     follows:  Sum Insured for 
Cover for Loss of Rent (as declared by You in the Proposal Form and specified by Us in the 
Policy Schedule) X Period necessary for repairs ÷ Loss of Rent Period opted  for. 
d. This cover will be available for the reasonable time requi red to repair Your Home Building 
to make it fit for living. The maximum period of this cover is three years from the date Your 
Home Building becomes unfit for living. You must submit a certificate from an architect or 
the local authority to show that Your Home Building is not fit for  living.  
e. Claim  for loss of rent  will be accepted  only  if We have  accepted Your  claim  for loss for physical 
damage to Your Home under the Home Building  Cover.  
Clause D: Home Contents Cover  
1. What We  cover:  
We cover  the physical  loss or damage  to or destruction  of the General  Contents of Your Home 
caused by an Insured Event as listed in Clause B of this Policy. Valuable Contents of Your Home 
are not covered under this Policy unless You have purchased the optional cover for the Valuable  
Contents . 
2. Sum  Insured:  
a. The Sum Insured for the Home Contents Cover is shown in the Policy Schedule and will be 
the maximum amount payable in the event the Home Contents are destroyed/lost  
completely.  
b. The policy has a built -in cover for the General  Contents of Your home equal to 20% of the 
Sum Insured for Home Building Cover subject to a maximum  of 
₹ 10 Lakh (Rupees Ten Lakh) provided You have opted for both Home Building and Home 
Contents cover. If You choose to have a higher Sum Insured for Home C ontents, You have 
to declare the Sum Insured in the Proposal Form and pay additional premium.  
c. If You have purchased only Home Contents Cover, You have to declare the Sum Insured for 
the General Contents in the Proposal  Form.  
d. The Sum Insured You have chosen  for General Contents must be enough to cover the cost 
of replacement of the General  Contents.  
e.  If You want to cover the Valuable Contents in Your Home, You must opt for the Optional 
Cover for Valuable Contents as given in Clause E (1) (a) of this Policy.  
f. Restoration of Sum Insured: Except as stated in Clause G (III) (3) (b) of this Clause below, 
the insurance cover will at all times be maintained during the Policy  Period  to the full extent  
of the respective  Sum  Insured.  This means  that after We have paid f or any loss, the policy 
shall be restored to the full original amount of Sum Insured. You must pay to Us 
proportionate premium for the unexpired Policy Period from the date of loss. We can also 
deduct this premium from the net claim that We must pay  You.  
3. What We  pay 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 62 of 101 
 
a. If the General  Contents  of Your  Home  are physically  damaged  by any Insured Event, We will 
at Our  option,  
i. reimburse to You the cost of repairs to a condition substantially the same as its 
condition at the time of damage,  or 
ii. pay You the cost of replacing  that  item  with  a same  or similar  item,  or 
iii. repair the damaged item to a condition substantially the same as its condition 
at the time of  damage.  
b. The maximum We will pay for Home Contents is the Sum Insured shown in the Policy 
Schedule for Home Con tents Cover. If the Policy Schedule shows any  limit  for any item,  or 
category  or groups  of items,  such  limit  is the maximum We will pay for that  item.  
 
Clause E: Additional Covers applicable : Not applicable  
 
Clause F. Exclusions (What We do not cover) under Chola Ms Bharat Griha Raksha Policy  
We do not cover losses and expenses for any loss or damage or destruction of the Insured Property 
that is directly or indirectly as a result of or is caused by or arising from events, stated below:  
 
1. Your deliberate , wilful or intentional act or ommission, or of anyone on Your behalf, or with Your  
connivance.  
2. War,  invasion,  act of foreign  enemy  hostilities  or war-like operations  (whether  war is  declared  or 
not),  civil war,  mutiny,  civil commotion  amounting  to a popular  rising, military rising, rebellion, 
revolution, insurrection or military or usurped  power.  
3. Ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear 
waste from combustion of nuclear fuel, or the radioactive, tox ic, explosive or other hazardous 
properties of any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear component that is part of  it. 
4. Pollution or contamination,  unless  
i. the pollution or contamination itself has resulted from an Insured Event, or  
ii. an Insured Event itself results from pollution or  contamination.  
5. Loss, damage or destruction to any electrical/electronic machine, apparatus, fixture,  or fitting  by 
over -running,  excessive  pressure,  short  circuiting,  arcing,  self- heating or leakage of electricity 
from whatever c ause (lightning included). This exclusion applies only to the particular machine 
so lost, damaged or  destroyed.  
6. Loss  or damage  to bullion  or unset  precious  stones,  manuscripts,  plans,  drawings, securities,  
obligations  or documents  of any kind,  coins  or paper  money,  cheques, vehicles, and explosive 
substances unless otherwise expressly stated in the policy.  
7. Loss of any Insured Property which is missing or has been mislaid, or its disappearance cannot 
be linked to any single identifiable  event.  
8. Loss or damage to any Insured Property removed from Your Home to any other place.  
9. Loss of earnings, loss by delay, loss of market or other consequential or indirect loss or damage 
of any kind or description  whatsoever.  
10. Any reduction in market value of any Insured Property after its repair or reinstatement.  
11. Any addition, extension, or alteration to any structure of Your Home Building that increases its 
Carpet Area by more than 10% of the Carpet Area existing at the Commencement Date or on the 
date of renewal of this  Policy, unless You have paid additional premium and such addition, 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 63 of 101 
 
extension or alteration is added by Endorsement.  
12. Costs, fees or expenses for preparing any  claim.  
 
Clause G. Conditions applicable to Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy  
(I) Your Obligations  
1. Make true and full disclosure in the proposal and related  documents  
a. You have a duty of disclosure to tell Us everything You know, or could reasonably  be 
expected  to know,  that is relevant  to Us for deciding  whether  to give You insurance cover 
and on what terms. You owe this duty to disclose such relevant material information even 
if We have not specifically asked for it.  This duty  extends  to any information  or declaration  
given  by anyone  else on Your  behalf.  
b. We have agreed to give You insurance cover entirely on the basis of the information You, or 
anyone on Your behalf, have given Us in the proposal, statements and other declarations 
and documents (in writing or electronic) about Yourself, Your family, Your Home Building 
and Home Contents. The correct  and complete information You give is the basis of Our 
contract with You.  Our promise  to pay is conditional  upon  the truth  of these  statements  and 
on the assumption that You, or anyone on Your behalf, has not withheld any material 
information about Yourself, Your family, Your Home Building and Home  Contents.  
2. Obligation to take care : You must:  
a. keep Your Home Building and Home Contents in good condition and well maintained, You 
must ensure that the structure of Your Home Building does not have any fau lts or defects 
that are visible and material that will aggravate loss or damage to the Home Building in the 
event an insured peril  occurs.  
b. take care to prevent theft, loss or damage to Your Home Building and Home Contents,  and 
c. ensure that unauthorized pers ons do not occupy Your Home  Building.  
3. Inform change in circumstances : You must inform Us immediately  if 
a. You change Your  address,  
b. You make any addition, alteration, extension to the structure of Your Home Building,  
c. You let out Your  Home  Building,  or Your  Home  Building  will no longer  be solely occupied by  
You,  
d. You change the use of Your Home  Building.  
4. Allow inspection and investigation of claim: You must allow, and give full cooperation to the 
survey/investigation of Your claim by Us. You must allow Us, and  any surveyor, officer or other 
representative that We authorise, to inspect Your Home Building and Home Contents including 
the interior wherever necessary,  take  photographs  and where  required,  permit  the scientific  
testing  and investigation  of any insured  article  affected  by the insured  peril.  You must  answer all  
questions  asked  regarding  Your  claim  truthfully  and completely,  and submit  all relevant 
documents that We will  require.  
5.  Make  true  statements  and full disclosure  in the claim  and related  documents You must also give 
true and full information in Your claim and submit true documents. If You give any false 
information or document in the claim, or if You withhold any information or document (written 
or electronic), We have a right to refuse pa yment of Your claim. We may also cancel Your  policy.  
6. Cancellation and Termination of  Cover under  Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy  
1. Cancellation by You at any  Time  
a. You can cancel  this cover at  any time  by giving  Us notice  in writing.  The cover will terminate 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 64 of 101 
 
when we receive your  notice.  
b. If You cancel the cover, We will refund premium as  follows:  
 
Time for which cover in force  Refund of premium  
For a period not exceeding 15 days  90% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 15 days to 1 month  85% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 1 month to 2 months  70% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 2 month to 3 months  60% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 3 month to 4 months  50% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 4 month to 5 months  40% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 5 month to 6 months  30% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 6 month to 7 months  25% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 7 month to 8 months  20% of the Annual rate  
Exceeding 8 month to 9 months  15% of the Annual rate  
For the period Exceeding 9 months  No Refund  
 
c. Cancellation of Long Term cover  
No refund shall be allowed if there has been a claim under the cover.  
1. If the cover is cancelled within 1 years of inception, the premium to be retained shall be worked out 
as per normal rates applicable - that is without allowing any dis count.  
2. If the cover is cancelled after 1 years of inception, the discount slab shall be reworked for the 
number of years the cover was actually in force. For this purpose fraction of a year shall be rounded to 
the next higher year. For example if the co ver has run for 1 years and 1 months, premium shall be 
retained for 2 years.  
3. Refund, if any, shall be subject to the retention of minimum premium of Rs.100 for annual cover and  
 for cover Rs.250/ - 
 
2. Cancellation by  Us: 
a. We will not cancel the Policy duri ng the policy period except on the grounds of mis -
representation, non -disclosure of material facts, fraud or non -co- operation on Your  part.  
b. In case of Total Loss of Your Home Building in a long term policy where You have decided 
not to reinstate Your Home  Building in favour of a cash settlement of Your claim, We will 
cancel the cover for the remaining duration of  the policy  period.  In such  a case  We shall  
refund  the proportionate  premium for the un -expired policy years after grossing up the 
premium paid by  You towards long term discount, if  any.  
 
3. Automatic termination of the  Cover : 
This cover will automatically end in the following cases:  
a. Destruction of Your Home Building : This cover will automatically end 7 (seven) days after 
Your Home Building collapses or is destroyed by reason other than any Insured Event. If a 
separable part of Your Home Building, or any additional structure falls down or is destroyed 
by reason other than any Insured Event, the covers will end for such part or additional  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 65 of 101 
 
structure.  
You can apply within 7 (seven) days of such fall or destruction for continuing insurance 
cover. We may agree, but will not be bound, to continue the cover on the same rates, 
terms and conditions.  
b. Exhaustion of Sum Insured: If Your Home Building, or any additi onal structure, or any item 
of Home Contents, is lost, destroyed or stolen, or is a Total  Loss,  and We pay You the full 
Sum  Insured  for such  item,  the insurance cover  for that item  will automatically  end unless  the 
subject  matter  of insurance is reconstructed and the Sum Insured is reinstated by paying 
additional premium. If We pay the total Sum Insured for any claim, this Policy will  end.  
c. Change of use of Your Home Building or Home Contents: The Policy will end  
i. if You change  the use of Your  Home  Building  from  personal  residence  to any other 
purpose,  or 
ii. if You use any item of Home Contents for use that is not  personal.  
d. Sale of Your Home Building or Home Contents: This Policy will end when You sell, surrender 
or release Your interest in Your Home Building and/or Home Contents, or Your interest in 
the Home Building and/or Home  Contents comes to an end. The Policy will end to the extent 
any additional structure of Your  Home  Building  or item  of Home  Contents  if You sell, 
surrender  or release Your interest in such additional structure or item of Home Content, or 
Your interest in these  ends.  
e. Effect of  death  
In the event of the unfortunate death of the Insured during the Policy Period, the Home 
Building Cover and the Home Contents Cover that You have purchased will continue for 
the benefit of Your legal representative/s during the Policy Period subject to all the terms 
and conditions of this Policy.  
7. Claims  Procedure applicable for Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy  
If You suffer a loss because of an I nsured Event, You must make a claim for Your financial loss at 
Your cost. The procedure for making a claim is given below. These include things that You must do , 
and that You must not do . It is important to comply with these to ensure that it does not prej udice 
Your claim in any manner.  
1. Immediate notice to  Us 
a. As soon as any physical loss or damage occurs to Your Home Building or Home  Contents  due 
to an Insured  Event,  You must  immediately  give notice  to Us of the loss or damage. This is 
necessary for Us to survey/ investigate the loss or damage, as may be  required.  
b. You can give notice to any of Our offices or  call-centres.  
c. You must state in this  notice  
i. the Certificate Number,  
ii. Your  name,  
iii. details of report to the police that You  made,  
iv. details of report to any Authority that You  made,  
v. details of the Insured  Event,  
vi. a brief statement of the  loss,  
vii. particulars of any other insurance of Your Home Building or any of Your Home  
Contents,  
viii. details of loss or damage under any Optional Cover or  Add-ons,  
ix. submit photographs of loss or physical damage, wherever  possible.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 66 of 101 
 
2. Steps to prevent loss and  damage  
a. You must take all reasonable steps to prevent further loss or damage to Your Home Building 
and Home  Contents.  
b. Until We have inspected Your Home Building and Home Contents, and have given Our 
consent,  
i. You must not sell, give away or dispose of any damaged items of any property for 
which You are making a  claim;  
ii. You must not wash or clean, or remove any damaged item or debris, except for any 
urgent  necessity;  
iii. You must not carry out  repairs, unless such repairs are urgent and You cannot 
contact  Us. 
3. Immediate notice to  Authorities  
a. As soon  as any loss or damage  occurs  to the Insured  Property,  You must  give immediate 
report to appropriate legal authorities. For example, You must report  to the fire brigade  of 
the local  authority  and the police  if there  is damage by fire/ explosion / implosion or 
lightning. In case of  subsidence  
/landslide/rockslide, You must inform the District Administration. In the event of impact 
damage of any kind or Riot Strikes, Malicious damages and acts of terrorism, You must 
inform the police. If there is a theft within 7 (seven) days following an Insured Event You 
must inform the police.  
b. We may, but not necessarily, waive this condition if We are satisfied that b y reason  of 
extreme  hardship  it was not possible  for You or any other  person  on Your behalf to give such  
report.  
4. Submit claim  
a. Claim  form:  
i. You must  submit  Your  claim  in Our claim  form  at the earliest  opportunity, but  within  
30 days  from  the date  You first notice  the loss or damage.  The claim form is available 
in any of Our branches, and on Our  web -site.  
ii. You must state in Your claim the details of any other insurance policy that covers the 
damage or loss for which You have filed Your claim, whether You have purchased 
such other insurance, or someone else has purchased it for  You.  
b. We shall not be liable for any loss or damage after the expiry of 12 months from the 
happening of the loss or damage unless the claim is the subject of pending  action  or 
arbitration.  If We disclaim  liability  for a claim  You have  made and  if the claim  is not made  a 
subject  matter  of a suit in a court  of law within  a period of 12 months from the date of 
disclaimer, the claim shall not be recoverable  hereunder.  
5. Establish  loss 
a. You must prove that the Insured Event has occurred, and the extent of physical loss or 
damage You have suffered with full  details.  
b. When We  request,  
i. You must  support  Your  claim  for Home  Building  and/or  Home  Contents with plans, 
specification books, vouchers, invoices pertaining to costs incurred by You for  
reconstruction/replacement/repairs.  
ii. You must  allow  Us, Our officers,  surveyors  or representatives  to inspect the  loss or 
damage  to Your  Home  Building  and/or  Home  Contents,  and to take measurements, 
samples, damaged items or parts, and photographs that are  relevant.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 67 of 101 
 
iii. You must give Us authority to see the relevant records and get information about 
the Event and Your loss from the police or any other authority.  
c. For Optional Cover of Personal Accident, Death Certificate and Post Mortem report 
(wherever necessary) shall be  submitted.  
6. Fraudulent  claim  
If You, or anyone on Your behalf, make a false or fraudulent claim , or support a claim with any 
false or fraudulent statement or documents:  
i. We will not pay,  
ii. We can cancel  the Policy:  in such  a case,  You will lose all benefits  under this Policy and 
premium that You have paid,  and 
iii. We can also inform the police, and start legal proceedings against  You.  
7. Other  insurance  
a. If You have any other policy with Us or any other Insurance Company (taken by You or by 
anyone else for You) covering in whole or in part any claim that You have made under this 
Cover, You have a right to ask for settlement of Your claim under any of these  policies.  
b. If You choose to claim under this  cover from Us, We will settle Your claim within the limits 
and the terms and conditions of this  cover.  
c. After We pay the amount under Your claim, We have the right to ask for contribution from 
the Insurers that have given You the other  policies.  
d. We will en sure that Our actions do not impose any liability on  You.  
8. Recovery action by  Us 
a. When We accept and pay Your claim under the cover, We can start legal proceedings to 
recover the amount or property from the third party who has caused the loss or damage to 
Your Home Building or Home Contents. You must  give authority  to Us to take  such  action  and 
exercise  this right  effectively, when  We request  You,  whether  before  or after  making  
payment  of Your  claim. You must give all information, cooperation, assistance and help for 
this purpose. You must not do anything which will prejudice Our right. We can do this  
i. without seeking Your  consent,  
ii. in Your name,  and 
iii. whether or not Your loss has been fully  compensated.  
b. Any amount We recover from such person will be applied first  to the costs of the legal 
proceedings and recovery, then to the claim amount We have paid or must pay to You. We 
will pay You any  balance.  
c. You can start legal proceedings against any person who has caused the loss or  damage  only  
with  Our prior  consent,  and on conditions  that We will impose. You  must  not compromise  or 
settle  any claim  against  such  person  without  Our consent. If You recover any amount from 
such person, You must return to Us the amount We have paid for Your claim. We can take 
over the conduct  of legal  proceedings  that You have  started  and continue  the proceedings  in 
Your name.  
Clause H. Changes to covers applicable to  Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy  
a. You can choose to make changes to the covers of this Endorsement as may be permitted by 
Us, or increase or reduce any Sum Insured. You must make a proposal or request for any 
change. It will be effective only after We have accepted Your proposal, and You have paid 
the additional premium, where applicable.  
b. This Policy (including the Policy Sch edule, the proposal, declarations and Endorsements) 
consists of the entire contract between You and  Us. 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 68 of 101 
 
Clause I. Waiver of Underinsurance applicable to  Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy  
Underinsurance does not apply to the Bharat Griha Raksha Policy. T hus, if Your  Sum  
Insured  calculated  on the basis  of the information  that You provided, is less than the actual 
value at risk, the difference will not affect the amount We  pay.  
Clause J. Other Details  
1. Notices  
a. We will send any notice, letter or communication  in writing to You at Your address 
mentioned in the Policy Schedule, and to Your email address that You have registered with  
Us. 
b. You will send  any notice,  letter,  intimation  or communication  in writing  to Us at Our branch 
office where You purchased this Policy. You can also send it at the address mentioned in the 
Policy  Schedule.  
 
2. Nomination for this  Policy  
You can nominate a person to receive the claim amount under this Policy in the event of Your 
death. You can make such nomination at the time You take the Policy, or later. You can also 
change the nomination at any time. You can make the  nomination  on Our nomination  form  
available  in Our office  or from  Our website:www.cholainsurance.com  
 
3. Arbitration  
If any dispute or difference arises between You and Us regarding the amount of claim to be paid 
under this policy (liability having been admitted by Us), such difference shall independently of 
all other questions, be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by 
You and Us or if Y ou and We cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of either of Us 
opting for arbitration,  the same  shall  be referred  to a panel  of three  arbitrators  comprising  of two 
arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of Us, to the dispute/difference and the  third  arbitrator  
to be appointed  by two such  arbitrators  and arbitration  shall  be conducted under and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,  1996.  
 
This benefit is over and above the base Sum Insured. Claim under  Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha  will be treated as 
per policy terms and conditions, irrespective of claim settlement under Base CI or PA cover during the policy period  
4.  Territorial Limits:  
The Insurer’s liability to make any payment under this section will be for Insured contingencies occurring within 
the premises named in the Policy.  
Endorsement no.28  – FINANCIAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE : 
a. Coverage  
In the event the Insured requires ﬁnancial emergency Assistance following incidents ie. Burglary/ theft of lugga ge/ 
money or hold up. The Assistance Service provider shall co - ordinate  with the Insured’s  relatives  within  India  to 
provide  emergency  cash  assistance  to the Insured per  Insured’s  requirement,  and make payment for transfer charges 
which has been made through Assistance Service Provider up to the limit of Sum Insured specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate.  
  
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 69 of 101 
 
Endorsement no.28A  – FINANCIAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE ON BENEFIT BASIS : 
a. Coverage  
In the event the Insured requires ﬁnancial emergency Assistance following incidents ie. Burglary/ theft of luggage/ 
money or hold up. The Assistance Service provider shall co - ordinate  with the I nsured’s  relatives  within  India  to 
provide  emergency  cash  assistance  to the Insured per  Insured’s  requirement, and pay a fixed benefit towards transfer 
charges which has been made through Assistance Service Provider as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.29  – PET CARE : 
a. Coverage  
This policy shall reimburse medical expenses including fees for the Veterinary  Medical  Practitioner’s  fees towards  
the medical  care  and treatment  of the  pet animal  (limited  to cat or dog)  of the Insured  / Insured  Person  arising  due 
to an  injury  sustained  whilst  under  the care  of a friend,  relative,  house  servant,  other family  members  of the house  
or a Professional  Carrier  in India  during  the Insured/ Insured  Person’s  trip, covered  under  this Policy.  
 
The beneﬁt under the Section is limited to the Sum Insured as speciﬁed in the policy schedule/certificate.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Pet Care:  
This beneﬁt  does  not cover  any loss other  than  those  mentioned  above  under  the head  “coverage”,  directly , in whole  
or in part,  including  loss caused  by or resulting from  any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of 
this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.30  – SPORTS EQUIPMENT COVER : 
a. Coverage  
In the event of Insured Person’s own or hired Sports Equipment and / or its accessories are lost due to theft or 
damag ed during the entire trip, the policy shall reimburse the market value of such lost or damaged equipment upto 
the maximum of the Sum Insured as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ Certifi cate.  
 
The Insurer’s liability to make payment is only in excess of the Deductible as mentioned  in the Policy Certificate . A 
Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate  shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made under 
this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured . 
 
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Sports  Equipment Cover:  
Following losses are not covered under the  policy:  
 
1. Any loss due to theft or damage to insured/ Insured Person  sports  equipment and accessori es during 
insured’s entire journey if he does not get a written PIR (Property Irregularity Report) issued by the airline. 
For the purpose he shall be required to lodge the complaint with the airline immediately.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 70 of 101 
 
2. Loss to sports  equipment and accessories at any other time if insured does not report the loss or theft to 
the local police within 24hrs of discovering it and get a written police report from them.  
3. Loss or damage caused by delay, wear and tear, moths, vermin, weather and atmospheric conditions or 
mechanical failure.  
4. Loss or damage to sports  equipment and accessories left unattended at any place.  
5. Any loss or damage to the property due to confiscation or detention by any authority other than airline.  
6. Any loss falling under the General Exclusions of the  Policy  
7. Any amount of loss that has already been compensated from the club.  
 
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Sports  Equipment Cover:  
1. The Insured must keep the damaged property for inspection of the insurer or its authorized representative 
at any time after the loss is reported to the insurer.  
2. The Insured shall be required to surrender the said damaged property to the insurer on demand by them 
at the time of final settlement of the claim or shall agree to deduct an appropriate salvage value from the 
claim amount admissible at the option of the insurers.  
3. If the claim involves a part of a set of Property, the insurer liability shall be limited to the value of that part 
which has been damaged or lost during the trip.  
4. Receipts for items lost, stolen or damag ed or proof of ownership should be preserved properly so as to the 
Insured to substantiate his claim.  
5. The insured shall preserve all his recovery rights against the Third Party and shall be required to subrogate 
the same to the insurer at the time of settl ement of claim.  
6. Maximum depreciation applicable under this benefit shall not exceed 50% in any event.  
 
Endorsement no.31  – ADVENTURE SPORTS : 
 
a. Coverage  
Any Injury / illness / diseases related to or contracted due to participation in any adventure sports activity will 
be covered under the base cover -Emergency Accidental Hospitalization and the optional covers - Emergency  
Medical Evacuation & Repatriation of Mortal remains, if opted  on payment of requisite additional charges as 
agreed.  
 
A Deductible as ment ioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit will form part of Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.3 2 – CRUISE COVER : 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse the following expenses incurred by the Insured Person in excess of the deductible upto a 
maximum of the Sum Insured as mentioned in Policy Certificate during the Policy Period:  
 
1. Missed Port Departure   
In the event where the insured / Insured person fails to arrive at th e departure point in time to board the ship on 
which he has booked to travel on the initial journey of his trip as a result of:  
a) The failure of scheduled public transport on which the insured person is travelling  
b) An accident to or breakdown of the v ehicle in which the insured person is travelling;  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 71 of 101 
 
c) An accident or breakdown occurring ahead of him on a motorway or dual carriageway which causes an unexpected 
delay to the vehicle in which Insured is travelling; or Strike, industrial action or adverse weather conditions,  
 
The company shall reimburse the Insured / Insured Person reasonable additional accommodation (room only) and 
travel expenses necessarily incurred in joining the cruise ship journey at the next docking port up to the limit 
specified.  
 
The Insurer’s liability to make payment is only in excess of the Deductible as specified in policy schedule/ certificate.  
 
2. UNUSED EXCURSIONS   
The policy shall reimburse the cost of pre -booked excursions, which insured / insured person were unable to us e 
and which are not refundable from any other source as a direct result of being confined by the medical officer on 
the ship to insured/insured person own cabin due to an accident or illness which is covered Base Emergency 
Accidental Hospitalisation or the  optional cover - Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease, if opted . 
  
3. CRUISE INTERRUPTION  
In the event of Insured/Insured person requiring hospital treatment on dry land due to temporary illness, the 
policy reimburse the amount specified in the policy schedule/certificate , the travel expenses incurred to reach the 
next port in order to re -join the cruise. The insured / insured person has to submit a certificate from the medical 
practitioner in attendance to confirm the insured/ insured person’s u nforeseen illness or injury.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no. 33 – DEBIT/CREDIT CARD FRAUD : 
 
a. Coverage  
In the event of loss or Theft of the Insured Person’s bank issued debit/credit/forex card in the place of visit within 
India whilst on a Trip, the Company shall reimburse the financial loss incurred by the Insured Person, arising out of 
any fraudulent utilization of such card from the time of such lo ss or Theft being reported until the time of such card 
being blocked by issuing bank, up to the limit of Sum Insured as specified in the Policy schedule/Certificate.  
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  
 
a. All claims made under this Benefit shall be payable in India and in Indian Rupees only.  
b. The Insured Person must have taken all reasonable steps to avoid any loss, damage or expense.  
c. The loss or Theft is to be reported to the issuing bank as soon as practicable, and a written police 
report is to be furnished to the Company.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 72 of 101 
 
b. Specific Conditions ap plicable to Debit/Credit card fraud : 
Any suit or legal proceedings against the Company under this section shall be filed and instituted in the court having 
jurisdiction in India only.  
 
c. Specific Exclusions applicable to Debit/Credit card fraud:  
The Compa ny shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under this Benefit of the Policy in respect of an 
Insured Person, directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to any of the following:  
 
1. Any claims where the loss can or could have bee n recovered from any other source.  
2. Any claims where the reporting procedures of the issuing bank have not been followed as soon as 
practicable from the time of the Insured Person becoming aware of the loss or Theft.  
3. Any claim where loss or Theft is not notified to the local police as soon as practicable from the time of the 
Insured Person becoming aware of the loss or Theft.  
4. Any claim arising out of a loss where Insured Person has left the card unattended.  
5. Any costs incurred in procurement of a new card.  
6. Any claims arising out of, or in connection with any contractual liability.  
7. Any claim arising out of a loss where the Insured Person, his/her Immediate Family Member, relative, 
colleague, Travelling Companion or business staff is involved as an accomplice  or accessory.  
8. Any loss or damage  of a consequential  nature.  
9. Any financial loss or liability due to misuse of card occurring after the time of reporting the 
loss or Theft to the issuing  bank.  
10. Any claim, which is in any manner fraudulent or supported by any fraudulent statement or 
device  
 
Endorsement no.34  – LOSS OF GADGETS : 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse the cost of replacement to the Insured/Insured Person for loss of Laptop, Tablet, Mobile 
phone, Drone, E -reading devices carried under personal baggage on a trip, due to any cause other than those 
excluded.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Loss of Gadgets:  
a) The Excess  stated  in the policy  Schedule/certificate  to be borne  by the Insured  in any one occurrence. If, however, 
more than one property is lost or damaged in any one occurrence then the Insured shall not be called upon to 
bear more  than  the highest  single  deductible  applicable  to such  properties.  
b) Loss or damage caused by any defects existing at the time of commencement of the present insurance within 
the knowledge of the Insured/Insured Person, whether such defects were known to the Company  or not. 
c) Loss or damage as a direct consequence of wear and tear or of gradual deterioration  due to atmospheric  
conditions.  
d) Any costs incurred in connection with the elimination of functional failures unless such failures were caused by 
an indemniﬁable loss of or damage  to the insured  properties.  
Any costs  incurred  in connection  with  the maintenance  of the insured properties,  such  exclusion  also applying  
to parts  exchanged  in the course of  such  maintenance  operations.  
e) Loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier of the insured properties  is responsible  either  by law or 
under  contract.  
f) Loss of or damage to rented or hired property for which the owner is responsible either by law or under lease 
and/ or maintenance agreement.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 73 of 101 
 
g) Consequential  loss or liability  of any kind  or description.  
h) Aesthetic defects, such as scratches on painted polished or enameled surfaces.  
 
In respect  of the parts  mentioned  under  (h) above,  the Company  shall  be liable to provide compensation in the event 
such parts are a ﬀected by an indemniﬁable  loss of or damage  to the insured  properties.  
 
k) Wilful misconduct/ negligence on the part of the Insured/Insured Person.  
l) Theft  from  car except  from  car of fully  enclosed  saloon  type  having  all the doors,  windows  and other  openings  
securely  locked.  
m) Loss/damage  while  kept  in a secure  hotel  room  unless  forcible  entry  was used  to gain  access  to it. 
n) Loss/damage  not reported  to Police  within  24 hours  of the discovery  of loss  and a report  obtained.  
o) Loss/damage due to conﬁscation or detention by Customs or any other public  authority.  
p) Loss/damage while left unattended at a public place or in a public conveyance.  
q) Loss/damage  while  sent  under  contract  of afreightment.  
r) Loss  or damage  to equipment  due to felonious  assault,  burglary  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.35  – ALTERNATE EMPLOYEE/SUBSTITUTE EMPLOYEE EXPENSES : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse the cost of economy return fare incurred by the Insured/ Proposer towards sending an 
alternate employee for an uncompleted assignment,  in case  the original  employee  of the Insured  who  has been  sent  
on an assignment  and covered  under  this Policy,  has to be transported  back/repatriated to  his/her  usual  place  of 
residence  in India,  due to 
 
1. Accident/Injury  
2. Illness  
3. Accidental  death  arising  due to an injury  whilst  on trip.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusion applicable to Alternate Employee/Substitute Employee Expenses  
The following exclusions applicable to the Personal Accident section  shall  be applicable  to this Section  also as far as 
the accidental  death  due to injury  of the original  employee  is concerned  who  is covered  under  the Policy  as the Insured  
Person.  
 
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this beneﬁt  in respect of  the following:  
 
1. Any existing  physical  disability.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 74 of 101 
 
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due to intake of 
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics,  hallucinogens.  
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning  except  where  these  arise  
from  an accident.  
4. Any payment  under  this beneﬁt  whereby  the Company's  liability  would exceed  the sum  payable  in the 
event  of accidental  death.  
5. Any other  claim  after  a claim  for accidental  death  has been  admitted  by the  Company  and becomes  
payable.  
6. Any claim  which  arises  out of an accident  connected  with  the operation of an aircraft  (Including  Cabin  
Crew)  or which  occurs  during  parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is ﬂying as a Fare 
Paying passenger in a multi -engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter  company.  
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement  of the Insured/Insured  
Person  from;  
a. intentional  self-injury,  suicide,  or attempted  suicide.  
b. whilst  under  the inﬂuence  of intoxication,  liquor  or drugs.  
c. arising  or resulting  from  the insured/insured  person  committing  any breach of law with criminal intent 
or participating in an actual or  attempted  felony,  riot,  crime,  misdemeanour  or civil commotion.  
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing, 
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand  gliding,  mountaineering  or rock  climbing,  potholing,  abseiling, 
deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless s peciﬁcally covered  and duly  mentioned  in the 
Policy  Schedule /certificate . 
8. Any consequential  loss or damage  cost or expense  of whatsoever  nature.  
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly  caused by, contributed  to or aggravated  or prolonged  
by childbirth,  maternity  or pregnancy  or in consequence  thereof,  venereal  disease  or inﬁrmity.  
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured 
Person, due to or arising out of or directly connected with or traceable to act of terrorism or terrorist  
activities.  
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.  
 
 Endorsement no.3 6 –LOSS OF DEPOSIT OR CANCELLATION(HOTEL &AIRLINE) : 
dorsem no.36  – LOSS OF DEPOSIT OR CANECLLATION (HOTEL & AIRLINE) : 
a. Coverage  
i. All Risk Cover:  
This Section  shall reimburse expenses for necessary  and unavoidable  cancellation of  Hotel  and/ or Airline  booking  
arrangement  by the client.  
 
The Company shall be liable to reimburse the forfeited, non -refundable prepaid  payments  if the Insured  event  occurs  
on the trip start  date  or within  24 hours  prior  to the trip start  date.  
 
The Company will reimburse for the forfeited, non -refundable prepaid payments, made prior to the Insured/ 
Insured Person's departure date after adjusting  the proceeds  of cancelling  or preponing  of the arrangement,  if any. 
 
ii. Bounced Hotel booking coverage:  
In the event of hotel booking at destination point(s) being bounced i.e. Insured Person(s) could not obtain hotel 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 75 of 101 
 
accommodation services already booked for him on conﬁrmed basis with the suppliers / agents within India due 
to non -supply of services, the Insurance Company shall  reimburse  to the extent  of 80%  of following  expenses:  
 
d. Reasonable cost of Transportation expenses to the alternative hotel in the  same class of accommodation and 
location.  
e. The diﬀerence of cost in up gradation to a superior class of accommodation, wherever alternate 
accommodation is not available on the cost of pre -booked hotel. For this beneﬁt the Insured shall be  
required  to furnish  proof  that  the alternate  accommodation  on the cost of  pre-booked  hotel  is not 
available  in the same  location  in the form  of a certiﬁcate  issued  by the Alternate  Accommodation  Service  
Provider  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Loss of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airline)  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy for:  
1. Common carrier -caused delays, including an announced, organized sanctioned union labour strike that 
aﬀects public transportation , unless the  commencement  of the period  of insurance  is prior  to a date  when  
the strike  is foreseeable  and suﬃcient  notice  has been  issued  by way of local newspaper  or any other  
media  advisory  on actual  occurrence  of such  an event.  A strike  is foreseeable  on the date  the labour  union  
members  vote to  approve  a strike.  
2. Travel arrangements cancelled or changed by an airline, cruise line, or tour  operator,  unless  the 
cancellation  is the result  of inclement  weather.  
3. Changes in plans by the Insured/ Insured Person, an immediate family member,  or travelling  companion  
for any reason.  
4. Adverse change in ﬁnancial circumstances of the Insured/ Insured Person,  any family  member,  or a 
travelling  companion.  
5. Any business or cont ractual obligations of the Insured/Insured Person, any  family  member,  or a travelling  
companion,  except  for termination  or layoﬀ of employment of the Insured/Insured Person or the 
travelling companion  of the Insured  as deﬁned  above.  
6. Default  by the person,  agency,  or tour  operator  from  whom  the Insured  / Insured  Person  bought  this Policy  
and/or  made  travel  arrangements.  
7. Any government  regulation  or prohibition.  
8. An event  or circumstance,  which  occurs  prior  to the commencement  of the  period  of insurance.  
9. On account  of a felonious  assault,  where  the Insured/Insured  Person,  any family  member  of the 
Insured/Insured  Person,  the travelling  companion or travelling companion's family member has been a 
principal or accessory  in the assault  committed.  
10. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.  
 
c. Special condition applicable to Loss of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airlines) : 
1. The beneﬁts  payable  under  this cover shall  be upto the Sum Insured less any refunds paid or payable by the 
Hotel or Airline.  
2. In the event that claims are submitted for Bounced Hotel Booking as well as under the optional cover – 
Bounced Hotel Booking (if opted), the higher of the claims shall be payable by the Company during any 
one period of insurance.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Ben efit. 
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 76 of 101 
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.37  –TRAVEL LOAN SECURE : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse  to the Insured Person in case the Insured Person has borrowed, for the purpose of 
this Trip, from an NBFC/Bank or any other entity authorized by relevant authorities in India. Indemnity will be 
provided for the following perils: Personal Accident  Death, Permanent Total Disablement and permanent 
partial disability of the Insured Person within 180 days from the date of such bodily injury and such bodily injury 
is the sole and direct cause of his death or permanent total disablement Proceeds will be paid to the lending 
entity provided that the Insured Person has assigned benefits under this section of the policy in favor of the 
entity  
 
Indemnity is provided to the extent of principal outstanding amount at the time of loss or Sum Insured as 
specified under this section in the Policy schedule/ certificate whichever is lower.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be sep arately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Specific Conditions  applicable to Travel Loan Secure : 
This section does not cover the loan taken from any individual / firm / non-financial institution (including 
his/her own firm / company) other than Commercial Bank /licensed financial institutions.  
 
c. Specific Excl usion applicable to Travel Loan  Secure:  
No claim under this section would be paid if the death is due to or cause d by  
1. Directly caused by contributed to related to or aggravated or prolonged by childbirth or pregnancy or in 
consequence thereof,  
2. Due to participation in winter sports, skydiving, parachuting, hang gliding, bungee jumping, scuba diving, 
mountain climbing,  riding or driving in races or rallies using a motorized vehicle or bicycle, caving or pot 
holing, hunting or equestrian activities, skiing, diving or other underwater activity, rafting or canoeing 
involving white water rapids, yachting or boating outside coastal waters ( 2 miles), participation in any 
Professional Sports, any bodily contact sport or any other hazardous or potentially dangerous sports.  
3. Any loss falling under general exclusion of the policy  
 
Endorse ment no.38  – MOBILITY AIDS ALLOWANCE:  
 
a. Coverage  
If Insured Person has met with an Accident during the Policy period and sustained grievous bodily injuries for which 
treating Medical Practitioner gives a written medical advice for procurement of prosthetic device or equipment, 
then in addition to any amount payable under other Sections, the policy will reimburse the charges incurred by the 
Insured person for procuring medically necessary prosthetic devices up to the amount stated in the policy 
schedule /certificate .  
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 77 of 101 
 
These devices are artificial  devices replacing body parts, including artificial limbs, arms or eyes, orthopedic braces 
(including but not limited to Cane, Crutches, forearm crutch, Walkers, Walker cane hybrid, Gait trainers, Seated 
walking scooter, Wheelchairs and scooters, Stairlift s and similar devices, patient transfer devices and other aids of 
similar utility, arm, back or neck braces) and durable medical equipment (including but not limited to crutches, 
wheelchairs, power mobility devices, and hospital beds) which fulfils the ins ured person’s basic medical needs 
consequent to an injury.  
 
Durable medical equipment excludes spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, blood pressure monitoring machine, 
diabetes monitoring machine  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no. 39 – TRAVEL WITH PET COVER : 
a. Coverage  
If the Insured Person is travelling with his Pet and during the Trip:  
 
(a) If the Insured Person’s Pet suffers an Injury or Illness not related or attributed to any Pre -Existing condition, 
then the company  will reimburse the medical expenses incurred towards the inpatient & / or outpatient 
treatment of the pet, or  
(b) If the Insured Person suffers an Injury or Illness due to which he is admitted in a Hospital and there is no one 
to take care of the pet, then the company will reimburse the expenses incurred towards the safe and 
comfortable stay of pet at the pet boarding house  
 
Please be informed that:  
(a) The Insured Person’s pet has been validly transported and accommodated in accordance with the rules of the 
Commo n Carrier, hotel or other provider of accommodation;  
 
The Insured Person’s pet is maintained by the Insured Person exclusively for company, protection or 
entertainment, and not for the purposes of commerce or research  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no. 40 – MISSED DEPARTURE : 
 
a. Coverage  
If the Insured / Insured person cannot reach the original departure point of Insured/Insured  persons  booked  journey  
or the onward  or return  journey  due to below mentioned, the policy s hall reimburse the cost for alternative travel 
arrangement  (Common  Carrier - Air/ Rail) . 
 
 inclement  weather  conditions;  
 failure  of public  transport  services ; 
 accident  of the vehicle  in which  you are travelling,  on the way to catch  the return  ﬂight/  train  journey;  
 death of the Insured Person or the travelling Insured Person’s parent, spouse  or child;  
 sudden Illness or injury causing hospitalisation of the Insured Person or the  travelling  Insured  Person’s  
parent,  spouse  or child.  
The company shall pay such cost after adjusting the reimbursed made by the airline.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 78 of 101 
 
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions  applicable to Missed Departure:  
This beneﬁt  does  not cover  any loss other  than  those  mentioned  above  under  the head  “coverage”,  directly , in whole  
or in part,  including  loss caused  by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of 
this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.40A  – MISSED DEPARTURE ON BENEFIT BASIS : 
 
a. Coverage  
If the Insured / Insured  person cannot reach the original departure point of Insured/Insured  persons  booked  journey  
or the onward  or return  journey  due to below mentioned, the policy s hall pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum 
insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate . 
 
 inclement  weather  conditions;  
 failure  of public  transport  services ; 
 accident  of the vehicle  in which  you are travelling,  on the way to catch  the return  ﬂight/  train  journey;  
 death of the Insured Person or the travelling Insured Person’s parent, spouse  or child;  
 sudden Illness or injury causing hospitalisation of the Insured Person or the  travelling  Insured  Person’s  
parent,  spouse  or child.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Missed Departure  on benefit basis : 
This beneﬁt  does  not cover  any loss other  than  those  mentioned  above  under  the head  “coverage”,  directly , in whole  
or in part,  including  loss caused  by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of 
this Policy.  
 
Endorsement no.41  – FLIGHT DIVERSION & CANCELLATION : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall reimburse the insured for the alternate expenses incurred for reaching the intended destination if 
the flight on which the insured was travelling as a fare paying passenger is diverted or cancelled as a result of 
major travel event (s) which are listed below.  
 
Covered perils:  
1. Air traffic congestion / Bad weather at the city airport making it impossible for the aircraft to land.  
2. Strike by the airline authorities.  
3. Industrial action or terrorist attack at the destination airport.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
  
b. Specific conditions  applicable to Flight Diversion & Cancellation:  
(a) Insured can on ly claim under any one of the optional covers - of Trip Delay (Airways) or Missed Connection 
(Airways) or  Missed Departure or  Flight Diversion & Cancellation or Flight Delay, if opted  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 79 of 101 
 
(b) Benefit shall not be applicable if such delay is foreseen by the Insured  or that the Insured could have 
reasonably become aware of such delay in advance.  
(c) Any deviation from the originally scheduled route done at the  instance of the Insured for reasons whatsoever.  
(d) Any occasion when the carrier has offered an alternative trans port or connection or the Insured Person’s 
ticket for the connecting flight could have been used for an alternative connection.  
 
Endorsement no.41A  – FLIGHT DIVERSION & CANCELLATION ON BENEFIT BASIS : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate, if the 
flight on which the insured was travelling as a fare paying passenger is diverted or cancelled as a result of major 
travel event (s) which are  listed below.  
 
Covered perils:  
1. Air traffic congestion / Bad weather at the city airport making it impossible for the aircraft to land.  
2. Strike by the airline authorities.  
3. Industrial action or terrorist attack at the destination airport.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
  
b. Specific conditions applicable to Flight Diversion & Cancellation on benefit basis:  
 
a) Insured can only claim under any one of the optional covers - of Trip Delay on Benefit basis (Airways) or Missed 
Connection on Benefit basis (Airways)  or Missed Departure or Flight Diversion & Cancellation on benefit basis 
or Flight Delay on Benefit basis , if opted  
b) Benefit shall not be applicable if such delay is foreseen by the Insured or that the Insured could have  
reasonably become aware of such delay in advance.  
c) Any deviation from the originally scheduled route done at the instance of the Insured for reasons whatsoever.  
d) Any occasion when the carrier has offered an alternative transport or connection or the Insur ed Person’s 
ticket for the connecting flight could have been used for an alternative connection  
 
Endorsement no.42  – BAGGAGE DELAY IN COMMON CARRIER : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy will reimburse the insured upto the maximum of sum insured specified in the policy  schedule/certificate 
towards purchasing necessary Personal Effects if the insured’s Checked in -Baggage is delayed for more than 
number of hours as stated in the Policy Schedule / Certificate, from the time the insured arrived at the intended 
destination as stated on the ticket.  
 
Please be informed that  
(a) The payment for this benefit will be limited to the travel destinations as specified in the insured’s travel ticket 
(issued by Common Carrier). Insured must be a ticketed passenger on Common Carrier and must provide with 
written proof of delay from the common carrier.  
(b) If upon further investigation it is later determined that the insured’s baggage checked with the Common 
Carrier has been lost, any amount claimed a nd paid to the insured under this section will be deducted from 
any payment due to the Insured under the  optional cover -Baggage Loss in Common carrier (if opted) . 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 80 of 101 
 
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
In addition to the General Exclusions listed in this Policy this coverage shall not cover any actual or alleged delay 
arising from detention, confiscation or distribution by customs, police or other publ ic authorities . 
 
Endorsement no. 42A – BAGGAGE DELAY IN COMMON CARRIER ON BENEFIT BASIS : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy will pay a fixed amount equal to the sum insured specified in the policy schedule/certificate, if the 
insured’s Checked in -Baggage is delayed for more than number of hours as stated in the Policy Schedule / 
Certificate, from the time the insured arrived at the intended destination as stated on the ticket.  
 
Please be informed that  
a) The payment for this benefit will be limited to the travel destina tions as specified in the insured’s travel 
ticket (issued by Common Carrier). Insured must be a ticketed passenger on Common Carrier and must 
provide with written proof of delay from the common carrier.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
In addition to the General Exclusions listed in this Policy this coverage shall not cover any actual or alleged delay 
arising from detention, confiscation or distribution by customs, police or other public authorities . 
 
Endorsement no. 43 – BAGGAGE LOSS IN COMMON CARRIER : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy will reimburse the cost of replacement of the entire baggage and its contents, if the entire piece of 
Checked -in- Baggage, held in the care, custody and control of a Common Carrier is lost due to theft or misdirection 
by a Common Carrier or non - delivery at its destination while the Insured is a ticketed passenger on the Common 
Carrier  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Please be informed that : 
(a) Maximum amount to be reimbursed per checked in baggage is 50% of the applicable Su m Insured.  
(b) Maximum value per Article contained in the checked in baggage is 10% of the applicable Sum Insured.  
(c) We will not pay more than the sum insured mentioned in the schedule/certificate for all the checked -in 
baggage.  
(d) The Insured Person has to obtain a property irregularity report from the Carrier confirming the loss.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 81 of 101 
 
(e) The cover is limited to the travel destinations speciﬁed in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of 
residence.  
(f) The Company’s payment will be r educed by any sum for which the Carrier is liable to make payment.  
(g) If We accept a claim under the optional covers -Baggage Delay in Common carrier or Delay of Checked -in 
Baggage (Airways), if opted and there is a subsequent claim under this Section in resp ect of the same 
baggage,  
(h) We will pay the difference between the amount due or paid under optional covers -Baggage Delay in 
Common carrier or Delay of Checked -in Baggage (Airways), if opted and the amount payable in respect of 
the claim under this section.  
(i) The policy will not make any payment for claim directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable 
to:  
a. Valuables, Money, any kinds of securities or tickets.  
b.  Any damage to the baggage or its contents including pilferage from  the baggage.  
c. Delay,  detention, confiscation or distribution of baggage by customs, police or other public 
authorities.  
d. Prohibited items as per the Carrier’s Policy  
 
Endorsement no.43A  – BAGGAE LOSS IN COMMON CARRIER ON BENEFIT BASIS  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy will pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate , if the 
entire piece of Checked -in- Baggage, held in the care, custody and control of a Common Carrier is lost due to theft 
or misdirection by a Common Carrier or  non- delivery at its destination while the Insured is a ticketed passenger on 
the Common Carrier  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Please be informed that : 
1. We will not pay more than the sum insured mentioned in the schedule/certificate for all the checked -in 
baggage.  
2. The Insured Person has to obtain a property irregularity report from the Carrier confirming the loss.  
3. The cover is limited to the travel desti nations speciﬁed in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of 
residence.  
4. The policy will not make any payment for claim directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable 
to:  
a. Valuables, Money, any kinds of securities or tickets.  
b.  Any da mage to  the baggage or its contents including pilferage from the baggage.  
c. Delay, detention, confiscation or distribution of baggage by customs, police or other public 
authorities.  
d. Prohibited items as per the Carrier’s Policy  
 
Endorsement no.44  – LOSS OF BAGGAGE AND PERSONAL BELONGINGS:  
 
a. Coverage  
If, during the Period of Insurance, Personal Documents and/or Personal Eﬀects owned by or in the custody of an 
Insured Person are damaged or lost, then the policy will  reimburse  the Insured  Person  the cost of replacement  of 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 82 of 101 
 
the articles for any amount  up to the Total  Sum  Insured  stated  in the policy Schedule/certificate.  The Deductible, if 
applicable,  shall  be deducted  from  the Compensation  payable.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Speciﬁc Conditions applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal Belongings:  
1. All claims  will be subject  to the Company  at its own  discretion  assessing the  value  of the claim  based  on the age 
and estimated  wear  and tear of the  article  that forms  the basis  of the claim.  
 
2. If applicable and if payment has been made under the optional covers - Baggage Loss in Common carrier 
(Airways) or Total Loss of checked in Baggage (Airways) if opted , any amounts paid would be deducted from 
payment of a claim under this Sectio n of the Policy.  
 
3. If a Policyholder or Insured Person has other insurance against a loss covered by this Section, then the Company 
shall not be liable for a greater proportion of the loss than the applicable beneﬁt under this Section  bears  to the 
total  applicable  beneﬁt  under  all such  insurance.  
 
c. Speciﬁc Deﬁnitions  applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal Belongings:  
 
a. “Personal Documents” means an Insured Person's identity card (if applicable ), ration card, voter identity card, 
passport, driving lic ense.  
b. “Personal Eﬀects” means an Insured Person's mobile, laptop or tablet.  
 
d. Speciﬁc Claims Provisions applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal effects:  
In the event of a claim the Insured Person must:  
 
1. give immediate  written  notice:  
a. to the relevant  Common  Carrier  in the event  of loss or damage  in transit;  
b. to the relevant  police  authority  in the event  of loss or theft;  
2. submit  a copy  of the relevant  Common  Carrier  or police  report  when  a claim  is made;  
3. obtain  a Common  Carrier  or police  report  where  the loss occurred;  
4. in the event of loss by a Common Carrier, retain original tickets and baggage slips  and submit  them  when  a claim  
is made;  
5. submit original purchase receipts in the event of claims regarding goods purchased  during  the Insured  Journey;  
and 
6. for claims involving jewellery, submit original or certiﬁed copies of valuation certiﬁcates issued prior to the 
commencement of the Period of Insurance, when  a claim  is made  
For purposes  of any claim  hereunder:  
1. a pair of skis,  ski boots  and accessories  shall  be regarded  as one item;  
2. bottles  of perfume,  aftershave,  and make  up shall  together  be regarded  as one item;  
3. the equipment  and accessories  of any sport  that an Insured  Person  takes  on a trip  shall  be regarded  as one item.  
 
e. Special Exclusions applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal Effects:  
The Company  shall  not be liable  to pay any beneﬁt  in respect  of any Insured  Person for:  
 
1. loss of cash, bank or currency notes, cheques, debit or credit cards or unauthorized use thereof, postal orders, 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 83 of 101 
 
travellers cheques, travel, tickets, securities  of any kind  and petrol  or other  coupons.  
2. mechanical  or electrical  breakdown  or derangement  or breakage  of fragile  or brittle  articles,  or damage  caused  
by such  breakage  unless  caused  by ﬁre or by Accident  to the conveying  vehicle.  
3. destruction  or damage  due to wear  and tear,  moth  or vermin.  
4. baggage,  clothing  and personal  eﬀects  dispatched  as unaccompanied  baggage.  
5. theft from a motor vehicle unless the property is securely locked in the boot and  entry  to such  vehicle  is gained  
by visible,  violent  and forcible  means.  
6. loss or damage to sports equipment whilst in use, contact lenses, samples, tools.  
7. for loss, destruction, or damage due to delay, conﬁscation or detention by order  of any government  or Public  
Authori ty. 
8. for loss,  destruction  or damage  directly  occasioned  by pressure  waves,  caused by  aircraft or  other  aerial  devices  
travelling  at sonic  or supersonic  speeds.  
9. for loss, destruction or damage caused by any process of cleaning, dyeing, repairing  or restoring.  
10. for loss, destruction, or damage caused by atmospheric or climatic conditions or any other  gradually  
deteriorating  cause.  
11. a claim  involving  animals.  
12. loss, including but not limited to loss by theft, or damage to vehicles or other accessories.  
13. for any loss that is not reported either to the appropriate police authority or transport  carrier  within  twenty -
four (24) hours  of discovery  or if the carrier  is an airline  if a property  irregularity  report  is not obtained.  
14. baggage  and/or  personal  eﬀects  sent  under  an airway -bill or bill of lading.  
15. contact  lenses,  glasses,  hearing  aids or bridges  or dentures  for a tooth  or teeth.  
 
Endorsement no.45 – TERRORISM COVER:  
a. Coverage  
Notwithstanding any of the exclusions mentioned in the policy wordings, It is hereby understood and agreed that in 
consideration of payment of additional premium, the policy extends to cover claims due to Terrorism as defined 
under the policy for the Insured benefits vide Basic Emergency Accidental Hospitalisa tion or Base Personal Accident 
Cover or Endorsement no. 4. Personal Accident -Common Carrier, if opted.  
 
Endorsement no.46 – KEY REPLACEMENT:  
 
a. Coverage  
If an insured person incurs expenses towards the following du ring the insured journey then the policy will 
reimburse upto the maximum sum insured as specified in the policy schedule /certificate for the following 
expenses:  
 
1. Key Replacement – Reimburse ment of the cost of replacing the insured’s residence and/or ve hicle keys which 
are lost or stolen. The covered cost is limited to the money you paid to a locksmith to produce a new key.  
2. Break -in Protection – Reimbursement of the cost of replacing the Insured’s  locks and keys if the residence or 
vehicle is broken into. The covered costs include the labor cost for replacing the lock.  
3. Lock Out Reimbursement – Reimbursement of the cost of obtaining a locksmith if the insured is locked out of 
his/her  residence or the insured’s  vehicle due to the loss or theft of your keys.  
4. Rental Car Reimbursement – Reimbursement of the reasonable cost of a rental car if the Insured’s vehicle keys 
are lost or stolen and it will take more than 24 hours to replace them . 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 84 of 101 
 
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
  
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Key Replacement:  
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this Section  in respect of  the following:  
1. costs other than those listed above  
2. costs associated with lost or stolen keys for a residence other than the Insured’s  primary residence;  
3. The cost to replace keys to vehicles that the Insured does not own for personal use;   
 
c. Specif ic Conditions applicable to Key Replacement:  
For break -in protection claims, the Insured must provide an official police report that indicates the incident 
happened within the covered time frame in order for us to pay the claim; unless you are legally incapable of doing 
so. 
 
Endorsement no.47 – LOSS OF DOCUMENTS : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy wi ll reimburse the actual expenses necessarily incurred by the insured  to obtain the Duplicate or 
remake the Identity documents  such as Driving License, PAN Card, Aadhar Card, Voter Id or any other identity 
proof, if  he or she losess the same during the policy period  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
  
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Loss of documents : 
The Company  shall  not be liable  to make  any payment  under  this Section  in respect of  the following:  
1. transportation tickets, or other similar items or personal papers and payment cards;  
2. losses that are caused by any events other than lost or stolen, such as fire, water, normal wear and tear, 
manufacturing defects, vermin, insects, cleani ng or repairs, or similar events;  
3. accidental damage to insured’s  wallet and items inside;  
4. any fraudulent/unauthorized charges on the lost  or stolen payment cards;  
5. any identity theft related costs that are caused by lost or stolen personal paper s or payment cards  
 
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Los s of documents : 
Insured  must provide an official police report that indicates the incident happened within the covered time frame 
in order for us to pay the claim; unless you are legally incapable of doing so.  
 
Endorsement no.48 – CHANGE FEE COVERAGE  (AIRWAYS) : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall re imburse the fees charged by the airline to change these dates up to the sum insured as specified 
in the policy schedule/ certificate . (Note: Covered reasons include having your trip cancelled or interrupted for a 
covered reason listed — with the exception of cessation of operations — or because the Insured or a traveling 
companion are delayed by severe weather on the way to your flight  as long as you allowed enough time to board 
your flight as scheduled.)  
 
b. Co -Payment applicable to  Change fee coverage (Airways) : 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 85 of 101 
 
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co -payment as specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Ce rtificate. Co -Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every 
claim.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.49 – CYBER SECURITY:  
 
a. Coverage  
The Policy shall reimburse the expenses incurred by the Insured Person during the Policy Period upto a maximum of 
the Sum Insured due to:  
 
a. Any fraudulent and unauthorized access to usage,  
b. deletion or alteration of your personal data stored in Insured’s  computer system including his/her  digital 
devices, Defense and prosecution costs again st identity theft occurring on Insured’s  legitimate Social 
Media account as a result of a cyber -attack,  
c. Repeated use of digital communi cations to harass or frighten the Insured , Computer program received 
through  SMS, File transfer, downloaded programs from internet  or any other digital means by his/her 
computer system including the  digital devices maliciously designed to infiltrate and damage it without 
insured’s  consent, Funds wron gfully or erroneously paid by h im/her  as a direct result of Third Party's 
unauthorized targeted cyber intrusion into Insured’s  computer  system,  
d. Any attempt to obtain his/her  sensitive information such as usernames, passwords, and cred it card details  
often for malicious reasons, by masq uerading as a trustworthy entity through an electronic 
communication,  
e. A forgery or a wrongful manipulation of an E -mail header so that the message appears to have originated 
from the actual source Any liability arising out of unintended publication or broadcasting of any digital 
content resulting out of a Cyber Attack on you r Computer System including your digital devices,  
f. A threat to cause a Privacy Breach, Data Breach or Cyber Attack,  
g. Any unauthorized disclosure of your personal data by a third party or any unauthorized access or use of 
your personal data stored in Third Party's computer system.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.5 0 – IDENTITY THEFT : 
 
a. Coverage  
If an insured person incurs expenses resulting in efforts to resolve the identity theft, and expenses can be 
submitted up to 12  months after you make a claim, we will pay (up to the maximum sum insured as specified in 
the policy schedule /certificate  for this benefit) for the following expenses:  
 
1. Legal Expenses  – We will reimburse you for attorney and court fees incurred by you for: 
a. Defending any suit brought against you by a creditor or collection agency or someone acting on their behalf as a 
result of the identity theft;  
b. Removing any civil or criminal judgment wrongfully entered against you as a result of the identity theft;  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 86 of 101 
 
c. Challenging the accuracy or completeness of any information in your consumer credit report provided this 
information is inaccurate and falsely provided to the credit agency or financial institution as a result of identity 
theft.  
2. Lost Wages  - We will reimburse you for time taken from work solely as a result of your efforts to correct your 
financial records that have been altered due to identit y theft. Payment of lost wages includes compensation for 
whole or partial unpaid workdays. You must take these unpaid days within 12 months of making a claim  
3. Obligation to pay - If any credit accounts and or bank accounts were opened in your name withou t your 
authorization, we will pay for your actual loss from the unauthorized account. We will pay for your legal obligation 
to pay a creditor when the account was created as part of your identity theft.  
4. Miscellaneous Expenses  – We will reimburse the fo llowing expenses:  
a. The cost of re -filing applications for credit accounts or banking accounts that are rejected solely because the 
lender received incorrect information as a result of identity theft;  
b. The cost of notarizing documents related to your identity theft, long distance telephone calls, and certified mail 
reasonably incurred as a result of your efforts to report an identity theft or to correct your financial and credit 
records that have been altered as a result of your identity theft;  
c. The  cost of contesting the accuracy or completeness of any information contained in your credit history as a 
result of your identity theft;  
d. The cost of a maximum of 4 (four) credit reports from an entity approved by us. The credit reports shall be 
request ed when you make a claim.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Speci fic Exclusions applicable for Identity Theft:  
We will not pay for any expenses or loss as a result of:  
1. Monetary losses other than those covered above  
2. Any physical injury, sickness, disease, disability, shock, mental anguish and mental injury including required care, 
loss of services or death;  
3. Requesting credit reports before the discovery of your identity theft;  
4. Taking time from self -employment or wo rkdays that will be paid by your employer in order to correct your 
financial records that have been altered due to identity theft.  
 
c. Specific Conditions applicable for Identity Theft:  
1. The fraudulent account must have been opened in your name without your authorization.  
2. Any false charge or withdrawal from the unauthorized opened account must be verified by your financial 
institution.  
3. Coverage for false charges is limited to the amount you are held liable for by the financial institution.  
4. We  will be permitted to inspect your financial records.  
5. You will cooperate with us and help us to enforce any legal rights you or we may have in relation to your identity 
theft; this may include your attendance at depositions, hearings and trials, and gi ving evidence as necessary to 
resolve your identity theft.  
6. You will only have to pay one deductible per identity theft occurrence during the policy period.  
 
Endorsement no.5 1 – CARRIER CANCELLATION : 
 
a. Coverage  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 87 of 101 
 
The policy shall reimburse the expenses incurred up to  the Sum Insured specified in the policy schedule/certificate, 
if the Insured’s  booked and confirmed journey is cancelled within 3 hours  prior to the scheduled departure by the 
Common Carrier, provided that t he Insured Person provi des Us with a written proof from the Common Carrier of 
the cancellation of the journey unless this proof is available to Us directly from a reliable source in the public domain.  
 
The company shall not be liable to reimburse any expenses under this for a ny cancellation of the journey by the 
Insured Person.  
 
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made 
under this Benefit.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.5 1A – CARRIER CANCELLATION ON BENEFIT BASIS : 
 
a. Coverage  
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the Sum Insured specified in the policy schedule/certificate, if the 
Insured’s  booked and confirmed  journey is cancelled within 3 hours  prior to the scheduled departure by the 
Common Carrier, provided that t he Insured Person provides Us with a written proof from the Common Carrier of 
the cancellation of the journey unless this proof is available to Us directly from a reliable source in th e public domain.  
 
The company shall not be liable to reimburse any expenses under this for any cancellation of the journey by the 
Insured Person.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no. 52 – DIGITAL CAMERA INSURANCE : 
 
a. Coverage  
The Company  hereby agrees with the Insured (subject to the Exclusions & Conditions contained herein or endorsed 
hereon) that if at any time during the Policy Period, the Digital Camera insured and as defined in the policy shall 
suffer any unforese en and sudden physical loss or damage from any cause whilst a trip during the policy period , 
other than those specifically excluded, in a manner necessitating repair or replacement, the Company  will indemnify 
the Insured Person  in respect of such loss or d amage upto the maximum of the Sum Insured subject to a Co -payment 
as mentioned in the Policy Certificate . 
 
b. Specific Exclusion applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:  
The Company  shall not, however, be liable for  
 
1. Loss or damage caused by any faults or defects existing at the time of commencement of the present 
insurance within the knowledge of the Insured, or his representatives, whether such faults or defects were 
known to the Company  or not;  
2. Loss or damage as a d irect consequence of the continual influence of operation (eg. wear and tear, 
cavitations, erosion, corrosion, incrustation) or of gradual deterioration due to atmospheric conditions;  
3. any costs incurred in connection with the maintenance of the Digital Cam era, such exclusion also applying 
to parts exchanged in the course of such maintenance operations;  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 88 of 101 
 
4. loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier of the Digital camera is responsible either by law or 
under contract;  
5. loss of or damage to rented or hi red Digital Camera for which the owner is responsible either by law or 
under a lease and/or maintenance agreement;  
6. consequential loss or liability of any kind or description;  
7. aesthetic defects  
8. any Digital Single Lens Reflex (DSLR) camera purchased 30 days prior to the inception of this policy.  
9. Damage due to Pollution: any damage, loss or destruction to the Digital Camera on account of pollution or 
contamination  
 
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:  
1. In cases where damage to the Digital Camera can be repaired the Company  shall pay the expenses 
necessarily incurred to restore the damaged camera to its former state of serviceability  
2. In cases where the Digital Camera is destroyed, the Company  will pay the  actual value of the item 
immediately before the occurrence of the loss  
3. the cost of any alterations, improvements or overhauls shall not be recoverable under this cover  
4. in cases where the Digital Camera is subjected to total loss and meanwhile it becomes o bsolete, all costs 
necessary to replace the lost or damaged Digital Camera with a follow -up model of similar type and similar 
quality will be reimbursed.  
5. The Company  will make payments only after being satisfied, with necessary bills and documents that the  
repairs have been effected or replacements have taken place, as the case may be.  
 
d. Warranty  applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:  
It is warranted that the Maintenance Agreement in force at the inception of this policy is maintained during the 
currenc y of this policy and no variation in the terms of the Agreement shall be made without the written consent of 
the Company being obtained.  
 
For the purpose of this warranty the word ‘Maintenance’ shall mean the following:  
1. Safety Checks  
2. Preventive Maintenance  
3. Rectification of loss or damage or faults arising from normal operations as well as from ageing  
 
e. Co -Payment applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:  
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co -payment as specified in th e Policy 
Schedule/Certificate. Co -Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every 
claim.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
Endorsement no.5 3 – ALL RISK CANCELLATION:  
 
a. Coverage  
The policy will reimburse the Insured/Insured Person, the cost of ticket booked to travel by a Common Carrier for 
the Trip, up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule /certificate  and deductible as applicable, which are 
unrecoverable from any other sources, if Your T rip needs to be cancelled prior to commencement from Your place 
of residence or place of origin schedule from the departure date and time of the common carrier.  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 89 of 101 
 
OR 
If scheduled Common Carrier on which Insured was booked to travel is cancelled by the carrie r authorities before 
one week of the scheduled date & Time of departure, and if the Insured has opted for refund of the ticket cost due 
to the time gap between alternate Common Carrier offered by the carrier Company and originally booked Common 
Carrier is of more than 2 hours, then We will pay difference in ticket cost booked by the Insured from other Carrier.  
 
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.  
 
b. Special Condition  applicable to All Risk Cancellation:  
i. Our payment will be reduced by any sum for which the Common Carrier is liable to make payment  
ii. The city of destination on ticket booked from other carrier should be same as originally booked  travel ticket which 
was cancelled.  
iii. Any claim paid to the Insured Person under optional c overs - Trip Cancellation and/or Interruption or Travel 
Inconvenience  or Loss of Deposit or cancellation (Hotel & Airline) (if opted) shall invalidate the claim payment under 
this benefit.  
 
c. Co -Payment applicable to All Risk Cancellation:  
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co -payment as specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate. Co -Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every 
claim.  
 
Endorsement No.5 4. AUTOMATIC EXTENSION FOR 7 DAYS:  
 
a. Coverage:  
The policy shall extend automatically as upto 7 days from the date of expiry of the policy as mentioned in the Policy 
schedule, in the event of delay or cancellation of the departure of the Common Carrier in which the In sured Person 
was booked to return back home and which is beyond the control of the Insured Person and no alternative 
transportation was available to the Insured Person to return.  
 
Subject otherwise to all the other terms, conditions, limitations and except ions of the policy.  
 
 
 
ANNEXURE – I 
CLAIM DOCUMENTATION APPLICABLE TO VARIOUS COVERS UNDER THE POLICY  
 
Claim documents to be submitted in addition to filled and sig ned claim form , KYC documents. However, d epending 
upon the peculiarity of the case, the Company may seek for additional documents  / information’ s, if necessary.  
Additionally, the original ticket / boarding pass indicating the date of travel must also be submitted with every 
claim, along with the completed Claim Form   
 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 90 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
Emergency Accidental 
Hospitalization  • Medical reports and discharge summary issued by the hospital or prescriptions and 
medical records from the medical practitioner furnishing the name of the insured, period 
of treatment and details of treatme nt rendered i.e. line of treatment and final diagnosis.  
• Original hospital bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts 
towards expenses incurred  
• Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s Prescription advising hospitalizati on  
• Name, Address and Phone number of the local medical officer/family physician in India.  
• And any other document as may be appropriately applicable for the claims preferred 
under this section of the Policy  
 FIR/MLC copy  
OPD Emergency 
Medical Expenses   Prescription from the medical practitioner  
 Original bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts 
towards expenses incurred  
Personal Accident 
Covers  Accidental Death  
• Police report in original if the accident shall have taken in the public place or premises  
• Death Certificate clearly stating the reason of death  
• Post Mortem Report (In case of death)  
• Detailed Sequence of events  
• Medical records giving the deta ils of accident, nature of injury  (in case of hospital visit)  
• Certificate of disability from civil surgeon in India or any other equivalent recognized 
doctor authorized by state government.  
• Medical report from the attending doctor  
• Valid ticket or certificate from the Common Carrier establishing the Insured Person’s 
bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier at the time of the Accident.  
Permanent and Partial Disablement:  
• Police report in original if the accident shall have taken in the public place or premises  
• Detailed Sequence of events  
• Medical records giving the details of accident, nature of injury (in case of hospital visit)  
• Certificate of disability from ci vil surgeon in India or any other equivalent recognized 
doctor authorized by state government.  
• Valid ticket or certificate from the Common Carrier establishing the Insured Person’s 
bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier at the time of the Accide nt.  
Depending upon the peculiarity of the case, additional documents/information’s will be 
asked for  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 91 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
Emergency Medical 
Expenses – Illness / 
Disease  Medical reports and discharge summary issued by the hospital or prescriptions and 
medical records from the medical practitioner furnishing the name of the insured, period 
of treatment and details of treatment rendered i.e. line of treatment and final diagn osis.  
• Original hospital bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts 
towards expenses incurred  
• Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s Prescription advising hospitalization  
• Name, Address and Phone number of the local medical officer/family physician in India.  
• And any other document as may be appropriately applicable for the claims preferred 
under this section of the Policy  
Emergency  Medical 
Evacuation & 
Repatriation of Mortal 
remains  • Medical reports (Presenting complain, Diagnosis, Treatment given, Discharge condition 
etc.) and transportation details issued by the evacuation agency, prescriptions and medical 
report by the attending Medical Practitioner furnishing the name of the Insured Person 
and details of trea tment rendered along with the statement confirming the necessity of 
evacuation;  
• Documentary proof for all expenses incurred towards the Medical Evacuation.  
• Copy of the death certificate,(Also providing details of the place, date, time, and the 
circums tances and cause of death; )  
• Copy of the postmortem certificate, if conducted;  
• Documentary proof for expenses incurred towards disposal of the mortal remains 
including the name of the airlines, burial details, expenses incurred, other incidental cost  
with bifurcation of expenses.   
• In case of transportation of the body of the deceased to the Place of Residence, the 
receipt for expenses incurred towards preparation and packing of the mortal remains of 
the deceased and also for the transportation of t he mortal remains of the deceased.  
• Quotation or estimate of repatriation cost  
• Invoices (Itemized) and money receipts in original for the amount claimed.  
Dental Treatment 
Expenses  • Dental Records (Presenting compla in, diagnosis, treatment given)   All the test and X -ray 
reports  
• Prescription from the doctor  
• Name, address, contact no, fax no, e -mail id of the Local Medical Officer (LMO)/ Dentist 
in India Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed  
Compassionate V isit • Medical record of the patient. Discharge Summary, Presenting complain, diagnosis, 
treatment given, etc.) Certificate from the Treating Medical Officer mentioning the need 
for a companion (If no adult member from the family is available)  
• Money rec eipts in original for expenses incurred towards air tickets and stay of the 
insured/Immediate Family Member  
Hijack Distress 
Allowance (Airways)  • Police report confirming the incident. It should contain the passport number of the 
insured and period of hijacking  
• Letter from the airline clearly stating period of hijack and media  
• Coverage details.(e.g. photograph, videos, newspaper cutting  
Child Escort   Original ticket(s) used for the travel by the Minor Child(ren) back to the  home town  
Total Loss of checked 
in Baggage (Airways)  • Air tickets along with boarding passes  
• Copy of baggage tag’s  
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier mentioning the number of 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 92 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
baggage’s checked -in.  
• Original Certificate from airline authorities stating that baggage has been lost along with 
compensation details  
• Adequate proof of ownership of  items contained within checked -in baggage valued in 
excess of Rs.5000/ - under Total loss of Checked -in Baggage  
Delay of Checked -in 
Baggage (Airways)  • Air tickets and boarding pass  
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier.  
• Certificate from airline authorities clearly stating the date and time of delay and delivery 
of the baggage.  
• Original bills towards toiletries, medication and clothing during the delay period under 
Delay of Checked -in Baggage  
• Letter/communication cl early stating the compensation details offered by the 
Airlines/Third Party  
Trip Cancellation  
and/or Interruption  • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of spouse, parents & children. (if 
applicable)  
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical 
reasons. (if applicable)  
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if 
applicable)  
• Letter from the airlines clearly mentionin g the reason of cancellation and interruption of 
flight(if applicable)  
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if 
applicable)  
• Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors  
• Copy of new itiner ary in case trip got resche dule along with boarding passes or tickets as 
applicable  
•Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier , airport facility, car 
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any othe r 
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss  
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non -refundable in nature. 
All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation 
expenses a nd accommodation charges due to interruption of schedule flight  
Missed Connection 
(Airways)  • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors  
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes  
• Copies of reimbursemen t statements issued by an airline carrier, airport facility, car 
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other 
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss  
• All original bills and receipts for expe nses which got forfeited, nonrefundable in nature.  
• All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation 
expenses and accommodation charges due to interruption of schedule flight.  
Trip Delay (Airways)  • Original bills and receipts towards reasonable additional expenses during the delay i.e. 
meals and lodging   
• Letter from the airline clearly stating the period of delay  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 93 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
• Copy of boarding pass for the schedule trip and actual trip  
• Covering Letter w ith sequence of events  
Emergency 
accommodation due 
to Trip Delay (Airways)  • Letter in original mentioning the reason with refund details (If any ) from the hotel or 
concern authority where you were originally supposed to stay but could not stay • Booking 
confirmation  
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards the  extra cost of travel and 
accommodation  
Flight Delay   All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation 
expenses                                                                                                                                                    
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by an airline carrier, airport facility, car 
rental agency, travel agent or other similar establishment or any other insurance Company 
providing reimbursement to you for the loss                                                                                                                              
Over Booked -
Common Carrier 
(Airways)  • Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage tags.  
• Original letter from the concerned Airline confirming the overbooked flight & when  the 
next alternative transportation is available with refund or compensation amount if any.  
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards reasonable additional cost 
incurred for staying in a similar hotel or purchasing a new ticket  
• Origina l Air ticket/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel  
Bounced Hotel 
booking  All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation 
expenses and accommodation charges                                                                                             
 In case of superior class of accommodati on, proof that the alternate accommodation on 
the cost of pre -booked hotel is not available in the form of a certificate issued by the 
Alternate Accommodation Service Provider  
Travel Inconvenience  • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of Immediate Family Member (if 
applicable)  
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical 
reasons. (if applicable)  
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if 
applicable)  
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if 
applicable)  
 Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the concerned authority  
• Copies of reimbursement s tatements issued by the common carrier , airport facility, car 
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other 
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss                                                      
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case                    
• Police report (wherever applicable)  
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non -refundable in nature.    
Travel Service Supplier 
Insolvency   Copy of complete schedule itinerary  
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes /tickets as 
applicable  
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier carrier, airport 
facility, car rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any 
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 94 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
other insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss  
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non -refundable in nature.                                                                                                                                                        
 All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportatio n 
expenses and accommodation charges  
Car Rental Excess 
Insurance   Car rental agreement.                                                                                                                         
 Copy of Police Report                                                                                                                             
Copy of the car rental company’s accident damage report which shows the detail of each 
of the costs incurred , Photo evidence of the damage, itemized repair invoices/ receipts / 
other documents confirming the breakup of the amount Insured have paid in respect of 
accidental damage or loss for which the car rental company holds you responsible 
Original Payment Rec eipt from Car Rental Company for the excess settled towards the 
claim                                                                                                                                                                  
 Copy of your credit car d statement or payment instrument showing payment of the 
damages claimed, copy of the driving license of the Insured driver  
Personal Liability  • FIR/Police Report  
• Sequence of the events leading to Personal Liability  
• Witness Statement  
• Copy of policy report(in case of legal case)  
• Copy of the court award - Notice from the Third party claiming the amount  
Legal expenses  • Medical report from the attending doctor abroad.  
• Death Certificate (For Death Case)  
• Post Mortem Report (For Death Case)  
• Copy of FIR / Police Report  
• Sequence of events  
• Certificate of  disability from civil surgeon or any other equivalent recognized doctor 
authorized by state government.  
• Original invoices an d receipts of legal expenses  
Home Burglary 
Insurance (Contents)  • Copy of first information report/policy report.  
• Copy of final investigator report/non -detectable certificate issued by the police 
authorities/magisterial order.  
• Original receipts for all items claimed. If not available, provide description of items and 
the date, place and price of purchase  
• Panchnama  
• Letter of undertaking/subrogation form obtained from the insured.  
Chola Ms Bharat Griha 
Raksha Policy  • Fire Department report/Police report.  
• Origin al receipts for all items claimed. If not available, provide description of items and 
the date, place and price of purchase  
• Panchnama  
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case, 
additional documents/information’s will  be asked for  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 95 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
Financial Emergency  
Assistance  FIR/Police report lodged at the place of loss within 24 hours.  
• Details of items robbed -Details of funds (Cash, credit/debit cards, travelers cheque 
available) available with you  
• Sequence of events  
• Please confirm if you are staying alone or with any  friends, family, relatives.  
• Details of travel history for past 5 years  
• Details of travel insurance taken in past 3 years prior to this policy  
Pet Care  • Medical Record  
• Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor  
• Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed  
• A confirmation letter from the person, who was taking care of your pet during your trip 
abroad  
Sports Equipment 
cover   Copy of Hire Agreement in case of hired sports equipment or original proof of ownership                                                                                                                                              
 Receipts for items lost, stolen or damaged  
Adventure Sports   Operator’s license  
 Copy of Police report  
Cruise cover  • Booking confirmation  
 Written proof from the public transport on the Accident, Breakdown of the Common 
Carrier  
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards the extra cost of travel and 
accommodation  
 Medical Report on the illness or accidental injury suffered by the insured from the 
Medical Officer of the ship (if applicable)  
 All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non -refundable in nature.  
Debit / Credit Card - 
Fraud  • Copy of first information report/policy report.                                                                                   
 Bank Statement on the transactions made without Insured authorizing the same.  
Loss of Gadgets  • Copy of first information report/policy report.                                                                                  
 Original invoice/receipt ev idencing the proof of purchase                                                           
 Ownership of the lost gadget, or document evidencing the authorized custody of the 
same, if such gadget is provided by his/her employer/business organization  
Alternate 
Employee/Substitute 
Employee Expense  • Medical records  
• Medical certificate from the attending physician establishin g illness/accident  
• Original t icket s and boarding pas s of the substitute employee  
• Proof towards obtaining a new ticket for alternative employee  
Loss of Deposit or 
Cancellation (Hotel & 
Airline)  • Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage tags.  
• Original letter from the concern authority mentioning the amount paid to them or 
contracted to be paid due to the booking. Also confirming the cancellation and refund  
details If any  
• Original ticket s/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel  
• Medical record (If the cancellation was due to any medical reason)  
• Money receipt in advance for the amount paid or contr acted to be paid due to the 
booking.  
Travel Loan Secure  • Documents as per Personal Accident Section                                                                                     
 Loan Statement from the Bank with the Outstanding Principal Loan Amo unt details  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 96 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
Mobility Aids 
Allowance   Dr. Prescription and Original Payment receipts for purchase of Mobility Aids                                                                        
Travel with Pet cover  • Medical Records  
• Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor  
• Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed  
• A confirmation letter from the pet boarding house, who was taking care of your pet 
during your hospitalisation  
Missed Departure   Written proof from the public transport on the Accident, Breakdown or the Travel event 
or delayed arrival of the inward flight  
Flight Diversion & 
Cancellation  • Letter from the airline clea rly stating the period of delay/Cancellation  
• Covering Letter with sequence of events  
 Original Air ticket/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel  
Baggage Delay in 
Common carrier  • Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier.  
• Certificate from the Common Carrier clearly stating the date and time of delay and 
delivery of the baggage.  
Baggage Loss in 
Common carrier  • Copy of baggage tag’s  
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier mentioning the number of 
baggage’s checked -in.  
 FIR/Policy complaint on loss of baggage • Original Certificate from the Common Carrier 
stating that baggage has been lost along with compensation details   
• Adequate proof of ownership of items contained within checked -in baggage.  
Emergency 
accommodation due 
to Trip Delay  Authentication letter  from the Common Carrier on the Inclement weather                                                                                                                    
News Paper cutting or media coverage available in the public domain on the occurrence 
of the Insured Contingency details.                                                                                                          
Loss of baggage and 
Personal Belongings   Copy of Police Report                                                                                                                              
 Original Payment receipts for the expenses incurred to replace the lost baggage and its 
contents  
Key Repl acement   Copy of Police Report   
 Receipts for replacing locks and/or keys  
 Cost of Labor  
 Copy of Rental car Agreement (if applicable)  
Loss of Documents   Copy of Police Report   
 Copy of application made to the respective Government Authority for duplicate or for 
remaking the same  
Change Fee Coverage 
(Airways)  • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of Immediate Family Member (if 
applicable)  
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical 
reasons. (if applicable)  
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if 
applicable)  
• Proof of material loss or damage to the pr operty (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if 
applicable)  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 97 of 101 
 
Covers  Claim Documents  
 Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the concerned authority  
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case                    
• Police report (wherever appli cable)  
 Tickets originally booked and rescheduled  
Cyber Security   Police Report                                                                                                                                              
 Documentary proof evidencing the fraud committed  
Hotel Cancellation   Written statement from the Accommodation provider with reasons for denying the 
confirmed booking of the Insured  
Identity Theft   Police Report  
 Provide proof that it was necessary to  take time away from the Insured’s work if a claim is 
made under lost wages. The Company will ask the Insured to submit proof from the 
Insured’s employer  that the Insured took unpaid days off, and Insured must have this 
information notarized;  
 Submit cop ies of any demands, notices, summonses, complaints, or legal papers received 
in connection with a covered loss;  
 Authorisation for us to obtain records and other information such as credit reports (if 
applicable) wi thin 3 days of making the claim  
Carrier  Cancellation  • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors  
• Copies of reim bursement statements issued by the common , airport facility, car rental 
agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other insurance 
Compan y providing reimbursement to you for the loss  
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non -refundable in nature.  
 Written proof from the Common Carrier  of the cancellation of the journey  
Digital Camera 
Insurance   Proof of Ownership  
 Bills and documents for the repairs or replacements made, as applicable  
All Risk Cancellation  • Copy of complete schedule i tinerary for all the sectors  
• Copies of reimb ursement statements issued by the common  carrier, airport facil ity, car 
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other 
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss  
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non -refundable in nature.  
 
Annexure -2  (attached to and forming part of policy wordings)  
LIST OF EXCLUDED EXPENSES IN HOSPITALIZATION:  
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Policy, the Company shall not be liable to pay the expenses incurred 
under “excluded” or “non -medical” exp enses as mentioned in the table below;  
9  
LIST I – NON MEDICAL EXPENSES EXCLUDED UNDER THE POLICY  
Sl. No.  Item  
1 BABY FOOD  
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES  
3 BEAUTY SERVICES  
4 BELTS / BRACES  
5 BUDS  
6 COLD PACK / HOT PACK  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 98 of 101 
 
7 CARRY BAGS  
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES  
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’S DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)  
10 LEGGINGS  
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES  
12 MINERAL WATER  
13 SANITARY PAD  
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES  
15 GUEST SERVICES  
16 CREPE BANDAGE  
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE  
18 EYELET COLLAR  
19 SLINGS  
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES  
21 SERVICES CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED  
22 TELEVISON CHARGES  
23 SURCHARGES  
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES  
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)  
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE  
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES  
28 COURIER CHARGES  
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES  
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE  
31 MEDICAL RECORDS  
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES  
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES  
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 SPACER  
37 SPIROMETRE  
38 NEBULIZER KIT  
39 STEAM INHALER  
40 ARMSLING  
41 THERMOMETER  
42 CERVICAL COLLAR  
43 SPLINLT  
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR  
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/SHORT/HINGED)  
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER  
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELTT  
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES  
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR  
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 99 of 101 
 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER  
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES – SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES  
53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS  
54 CREAMS POWDER LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL 
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)  
55 ECG ELECTRODES  
56 GLOVES  
57 NEBULISATION KIT  
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED (DELIVERYKIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC)  
59 KIDNEY TRAY  
60 MASK  
61 OUNCE GLASS  
62 OXYGEN MASK  
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 PAN CAN  
65 TROLLY COVER  
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG  
67 AMBULANCE  
68 VASOFIX SAFETY  
LIST 11 – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO ROOM CHARGES  
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)  
2 HAND WASH  
3 SHOE COVER  
4 CAPS  
5 CRADLE CHARGES  
6 COMB  
7 EAU0DE -COLOGNE/ROOM FRESHNERS  
8 FOOT COVER  
9 GOWN  
10 SLIPPERS  
11 TISSUE PAPER  
12 TOOTH PASTE  
13 TOOTH BRUSH  
14 BED PAN  
15 FACE MASK  
16 FLEXI MASK  
17 HAND HOLDER  
18 SPUTUM CUP  
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS  
20 LUXURY TAX  
21 HVAC  
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES  
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES  
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 100 of 101 
 
25 CLEAN SHEET  
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET  
27 ADMISSION KIT  
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES  
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE  
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES  
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES  
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES  
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE  
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES  
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)  
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG  
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES  
LIST III – ITEM THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO PROCEDURE CHARGES  
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM  
2 DISPOSABLE RAZORS CHARGES (FOR SITE PREPARATIONS)  
3 EYE PAD  
4 EYE SHEILD  
5 CAMERA COVER  
6 DVD, CD, CHARGES  
7 GAUSE SOFT  
8 GAUZE  
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES  
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS  
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL, SHAVER  
13 SURGICAL DRILL  
14 EYE KIT  
15 EYE DRAPE  
16 X-RAY FILM  
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES  
18 COTTON  
19 COTTON BANDAGE  
20 SURGICAL TAPE  
21 APRON  
22 TORNIQUET  
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE  
LIST IV – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO COSTS OF TREATMENT  
1 ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES  
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE  
3 URINE CONTAINER  
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES  
5 BIPAP MACHINE  
6 CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS  
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED  
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”,  2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.  
Toll f ree: 1800 20 8 9100 , T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550  
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com ; website: www. cholainsurance.com        
IRDA Regn. No. 123; PAN  AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977  
 
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE  
CHOTGDP23004V012223  
Policy Wordings  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 101 of 101 
 
7 INFUSION PUMP – COST  
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE \SPIRIT \DISINFECTANTS ETC  
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES – DIETICIAN CHARGES – DIET CHARGES  
10 HIV KIT  
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH  
12 LOZENGES  
13 MOUTH PAINT  
14 VACCINATION CHARGES  
15 ALCOHOLT SWABES  
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM  
17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS  
18 URINE BAG  
 
 
This is for IRDAI Information Only  
 
Some of the contents shown in policy wordings might be applicable for certain Sections and not generic, e.g. some 
contents are useful for “Trip Delay” cover only. The Company intends to use the contents dynamically based on the 
coverage offered to the Policyholder/Insured; e.g. If the Insured Person doesn’t opt for “Trip Delay”, then wording, 
terms and conditions related to this Specific Section will not be shown on the Policy Wordings. Similarly, general 
exclusions or general conditions which might not be applicable for Sections chosen by Policyholder/Insured will not 
be shown. Idea of doing thi s is to make policy wording more apt and concise to customer need and provide relevant 
information to customer.   
 


--- DOCUMENT TABLES ---

Table 1:
   Sl. No.                                        BASE COVERS
0        1               Emergency Accidental Hospitalization
1        2                                      OPD Treatment
2        3  Personal Accident Covers\ra.Accidental Death\r...

Table 2:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [. EMERGENCY ACCIDENTAL HOSPITALISATION]
Index: []

Table 3:
                      Table of Benefits Percentage of  Sum  Insured
0                             payable as compensation  NaN      NaN
1                         1. Accident Death (AD) 100%  NaN      NaN
2            2. PTD – Total and irrecoverable loss of  NaN      NaN
3   i) Sight of both eyes or of the actual loss by...  NaN      NaN
4   two entire feet or one entire hand and one ent...  NaN      NaN
5   eye and such loss of one entire hand or one en...  NaN      NaN
6   ii) Use of two hands or of two feet or of one ...  NaN      NaN
7   of one eye and such loss of use of one hand or...  NaN      NaN
8                           iii) Total Paralysis 100%  NaN      NaN
9   iv) Loss of all fingers and both thumbs OR los...  NaN      NaN
10  and elbow; at and below elbow OR loss of leg –...  NaN      NaN
11                                               knee  NaN      NaN
12  For the purpose of items 2 i) above, physical ...  NaN      NaN
13  and/or of the foot at or above ankle respectiv...  NaN      NaN
14  3. Permanent total and absolute disablement di...  NaN      NaN
15  from engaging in any employment or occupation ...  NaN      NaN
16             he or she was capable of doing earlier  NaN      NaN
17  4. PPD - Total and irrecoverable loss of vario...  NaN      NaN
18  The sight of one eye or the actual loss by phy...  NaN      NaN
19                                       entire foot.  NaN      NaN
20  Loss of Use of a hand or a foot without physic...  NaN      NaN
21                                 Loss of speech 50%  NaN      NaN
22                             Loss of toes – all 20%  NaN      NaN

Table 4:
                  Loss of toes great - both phalanges                                                 5%
0                    Loss of toes great - one phalanx                                                 2%
1   Loss of toes other than great, if more than on...                                                 2%
2                         Loss of hearing - both ears                                                75%
3                           Loss of hearing - one ear                                                30%
4          Loss of four fingers and thumb of one hand                                                50%
5                    Loss of four fingers of one hand                                                40%
6                      Loss of thumb - both phalanges                                                25%
7                         Loss of thumb – one phalanx                                                10%
8              Loss of index finger – three phalanges                                                15%
9                Loss of index finger – two phalanges                                                10%
10                 Loss of index finger - one phalanx                                                 5%
11  Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little...                                                10%
12  Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little...                                                 7%
13  Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little...                                                 3%
14  Loss of metacarpals – first or second (additio...                                                 3%
15            Any other permanent partial disablement  Percentage as assessed by the\rpanel doctor of...
16   The disablement occurs within one year of ac...                                                NaN

Table 5:
     3. Where it is not possible to make an emergency call before consulting a Medical Practitioner or going into
0   NaN  hospital, the Insured Person shall contact the...                                                       
1   NaN  when being admitted as a patient, the Insured ...                                                       
2   NaN  hospital, the details of his/her policy covera...                                                       
3   NaN                      request them to contact them.                                                       
4   NaN                                                NaN                                                       
5   4.0  All necessary claim documents should be furnis...                                                       
6   NaN  holder/insured to make a claim. However, claim...                                                       
7   NaN                    are valid reasons of any delay.                                                       
8   NaN                                                NaN                                                       
9   5.0  If proper intimation is given, the Assistance ...                                                       
10  NaN  other providers for the costs of hospitalizati...                                                       
11  NaN  settled directly by the Assistance Service Pro...                                                       
12  NaN  Person shall release Medical Practitioners/hos...                                                       
13  NaN        to disclose information about his/her case.                                                       
14  NaN                                                NaN                                                       
15  6.0  In such cases, the Insured Person before his d...                                                       

Table 6:
                                  Short Period Scale
0  Policy Period  Up to Rate Of Premium to be ret...
1     Up to 15% of Policy Period 25% of premium paid
2     Up to 25% of Policy Period 50% of premium paid
3     Up to 50% of Policy Period 75% of premium paid
4  Exceeding 50% of Policy Period 100% of premium...

Table 7:
  Gujarat, UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and\rDiu Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd floor, Ambica\rHouse, Near C.U. Shah College, 5, Navyug Colony, Ashram\rRoad, Ahmedabad – 380014\rTel.: 079-27546150/27546139, Fax: 079-27546142, Email:\rbimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
0                                          Karnataka     OfficeoftheInsuranceOmbudsman,Jeevansoudha\rBu...                                                                                                                                                                              
1                    Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh     Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Janakvihar ...                                                                                                                                                                              
2                                             Odisha     Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, Foresh ...                                                                                                                                                                              
3  Punjab,Haryana,HimachalPradesh,Jammuand\rKashm...     Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No.1...                                                                                                                                                                              
4  Tamilnadu,UT-PondicherryTownandKaraikal\r(whic...     Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Fatima Akhta...                                                                                                                                                                              
5                                              Delhi     OfficeoftheInsuranceOmbudsman,2/2A,Universal\r...                                                                                                                                                                              
6  Assam,Meghalaya,Manipur,Mizoram,Arunachal\rPra...     Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanNives...                                                                                                                                                                              
7  Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT of Yanam-a pa...     OfficeoftheInsuranceOmbudsman,6-2-46,1st\rFloo...                                                                                                                                                                              
8                                          Rajasthan     Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,JeevanNidhi ...                                                                                                                                                                              
9  Kerala, UT of (a) Lakshadweep, (b) Mahe-a part...     Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  2nd Floor,...                                                                                                                                                                              

Table 8:
                                           Unnamed: 0                                      682015, Tel.:        0484-2358759/2359338,         Fax.:    0484-
0                                                 NaN   2359336, Email.: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in                          NaN           NaN      NaN
1     West Bengal, UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands,                            Office of the Insurance         Ombudsman, Hindustan           NaN    Bldg,
2                                              Sikkim  Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, Kolkata – 7...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
3                                                 NaN                             033-22124339/22124340.           Fax. 033-22124341,           NaN  Email.:
4                                                 NaN                      bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in                          NaN           NaN      NaN
5   Districts of Uttar Pradesh, Laitpur, Jhansi, M...                                      Office of the         Insurance Ombudsman,           6th   Floor,
6   Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur,  Jeevanbhawan, Phase-II, Nawal Kishore Road, Ha...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
7          Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,                                  Lucknow – 226001.  Tel.: 0522-2231330/2231331.           NaN    Fax.:
8   Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Un...  0522-2331310. Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.c...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
9   Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raeba...                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
10      Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
11        Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
12             Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
13       Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
14                  Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
15     Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, ...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
16                                     Mumbai & Thane  Annexe, S.V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai – 400...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
17                                                NaN                             022-26106552/26106960.           Fax: 022-26106052.           NaN   Email:
18                                                NaN                       bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in                          NaN           NaN      NaN
19                                                NaN                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
20  State of Uttaranchal and the following distric...                                      Office of the         Insurance Ombudsman,  Bhagwansahai      NaN
21  Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly...  Palace, 4th floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Secto...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
22      Baudam, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri,                                       gautambhuddh         Nagar, U.P – 201301.         Tel.:    0120-
23         Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar,                           2514250/2514251/2514253.                          NaN           NaN  Email.:
24  Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad,                        bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in                          NaN           NaN      NaN
25               Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
26     Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
27          Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
28                                        Saharanpur,                                                NaN                          NaN           NaN      NaN
29                                   Bihar, Jharkhand  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Fllor, ...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
30                                                NaN  Arcade Building, Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
31                                                NaN         800006, Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in                          NaN           NaN      NaN
32         Maharashtra, Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanDarsh...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
33               excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region  3rd floor, C.T.S. No.s 195 to198, N.C. Kelkar ...                          NaN           NaN      NaN
34                                                NaN                                  Peth, Pune-411030           Tel: 020-32341320,           NaN   Email:
35                                                NaN                         bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in                          NaN           NaN      NaN

Table 9:
   Endorsement no. Optional Covers (on payment of additional premium)
0                1     Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease
1                2  Emergency  Medical Evacuation & Repatriation o...
2                3  Pre existing condition in Life Threatening Sit...
3                4            Personal Accident Covers-Common Carrier
4                5                          Dental Treatment Expenses
5                6         Daily Allowance in case of Hospitalization
6                7   Daily Allowance in case of Non - Hospitalization
7                8                                Compassionate Visit
8                9                Hijack Distress Allowance (Airways)
9               10                                       Child Escort
10              11         Total Loss of checked in Baggage (Airways)
11             11A  Total Loss of checked in Baggage on Benefit Ba...
12              12              Delay of Checked-in Baggage (Airways)
13             12A  Delay of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (...
14              13                                  Trip Cancellation
15             13A                 Trip Cancellation on Benefit basis
16              14                                  Trip Interruption
17             14A                 Trip Interruption on Benefit basis
18              15                        Missed Connection (Airways)
19             15A       Missed Connection on Benefit basis (Airways)
20              16                               Trip Delay (Airways)
21             16A              Trip Delay on Benefit basis (Airways)
22              17  Emergency accommodation due to Trip Delay (Air...
23              18                            Flight Delay (Airlines)
24             18A           Flight Delay (Airlines) on Benefit basis
25              19               Over Booked-Common Carrier (Airways)
26             19A  Over Booked-Common Carrier on Benefit basis (A...
27              20                              Bounced Hotel booking
28              21                               Travel Inconvenience
29              21              Travel Inconvenience on Benefit basis
30              22                 Travel Service Supplier Insolvency
31              23                        Car Rental Excess Insurance
32              24                                 Personal Liability
33              25                                     Legal expenses
34              26                 Home Burglary Insurance (Contents)
35              27                Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
36              28                    Financial Emergency  Assistance

Table 10:
    28A   Financial Emergency  Assistance on Benefit basis
0    29                                           Pet Care
1    30                             Sports Equipment cover
2    31                                   Adventure Sports
3    32                                       Cruise cover
4    33                        Debit / Credit Card – Fraud
5    34                                    Loss of Gadgets
6    35    Alternate Employee/Substitute Employee Expenses
7    36  Loss of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airline)
8    37                                 Travel Loan Secure
9    38                            Mobility Aids Allowance
10   39                              Travel with Pet cover
11   40                                   Missed Departure
12  40A                  Missed Departure on Benefit basis
13   41                    Flight Diversion & Cancellation
14  41A   Flight Diversion & Cancellation on Benefit basis
15   42                    Baggage Delay in Common carrier
16  42A   Baggage Delay in Common carrier on Benefit basis
17   43                     Baggage Loss in Common carrier
18  43A  Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basi...
19   44            Loss of baggage and Personal Belongings
20   45                                    Terrorism cover
21   46                                    Key Replacement
22   47                                  Loss of Documents
23   48                                Change Fee Coverage
24   49                                     Cyber Security
25   50                                     Identity Theft
26   51                               Carrier Cancellation
27  51A              Carrier Cancellation on Benefit basis
28   52                           Digital Camera Insurance
29   53                              All Risk Cancellation
30   54                     Automatic Extension for 7 Days

Table 11:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [ndorsement no. 1. EMERGENCY MEDICAL EXPENSES-ILLNESS/DISEASES:]
Index: []

Table 12:
   4. Any payment under this benefit whereby the Company's liability would exceed the sum payable in the
0                          event of accidental death.                                                   
1   5. Any other claim after a claim for accidenta...                                                   
2                                            payable.                                                   
3   6. Any claim which arises out of an accident c...                                                   
4   Crew) or which occurs during parachuting excep...                                                   
5   Paying passenger in a multi-engine, scheduled ...                                                   
6   7. Payment of compensation in respect of accid...                                                   
7                                        Person from;                                                   
8   a. intentional self-injury, suicide, or attemp...                                                   
9   b. whilst under the influence of intoxication,...                                                   
10  c. arising or resulting from the insured/insur...                                                   
11  intent or participating in an actual or  attem...                                                   
12                                         commotion.                                                   
13  d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing ...                                                   
14  ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand glidi...                                                   
15  abseiling, deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice...                                                   
16                  mentioned in the Policy Schedule.                                                   
17  8. Any consequential loss or damage cost or ex...                                                   
18  9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, ...                                                   
19  by childbirth, maternity or pregnancy or in co...                                                   
20  10. Payment of compensation in respect of acci...                                                   
21  Person, due to or arising out of or directly c...                                                   
22                                        activities.                                                   
23  11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Ex...                                                   
24  cial Conditions applicable to Personal Acciden...                                                   
25  1. In the event of partial loss or impairment ...                                                   
26  the appropriate proportion of the percentage a...                                                   
27                                           payment.                                                   
28  2. If the accident impairs a number of physica...                                                   
29  Table of Benefits will be added together, but ...                                                   
30       Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule.                                                   
31  3. If the accident affects parts of the body o...                                                   

Table 13:
    1. Treatment, which could reasonably be delayed until the Insured/ Insured Person's return. The question of
0  NaN  what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed ...                                                      
1  NaN                       Assistance Service Provider.                                                      
2  2.0  Treatment of orthopaedic, degenerative or onco...                                                      
3  3.0  Charges in excess of reasonable and customary ...                                                      
4  NaN                                          Provider.                                                      
5  4.0  Cementing or Fixation of tooth or teeth bridge/s.                                                      
6  5.0  Treatment relating to the removal of physical ...                                                      
7  NaN                               any form or manner).                                                      
8  6.0  Expenses incurred in connection with rest or r...                                                      

Table 14:
   1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
0   permanent residence. The question of what can ...                                                       
1   jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner a...                                                       
2                          standards of medical care.                                                       
3   2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customa...                                                       
4                                   an insured event.                                                       
5   3. Treatment relating to the removal of physic...                                                       
6   in any form or manner unless medically require...                                                       
7   4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest o...                                                       
8   convalescence home, rehabilitation measures, p...                                                       
9   term nursing care, custodial care and treatmen...                                                       
10  5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s p...                                                       
11  6. Any health check-ups or examinations or mea...                                                       
12  reasons for any purpose other than treatment r...                                                       
13  7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exc...                                                       
14  sement no.7 – DAILY ALLOWANCE IN CASE OF NON-H...                                                       
15                                              erage                                                       
16  olicy will pay a fixed allowance upto a maximu...                                                       
17  ured is treated for any injury / illness on OP...                                                       
18  al and usual place of residence and is confine...                                                       
19  he insured will be paid the amount as specifie...                                                       
20  uctible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate...                                                       
21                                      this Benefit.                                                       
22     enefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.                                                       
23  cial Exclusions to Daily Allowance in case of ...                                                       
24  Company shall not be liable to make any paymen...                                                       
25  enses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/ Insu...                                                       
26  1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed...                                                       
27  permanent residence. The question of what can ...                                                       
28  jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner a...                                                       
29                         standards of medical care.                                                       
30  2. Treatment relating to the removal of physic...                                                       

Table 15:
    1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
0  NaN  permanent residence. The question of what can ...                                                    
1  NaN  jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner a...                                                    
2  NaN                         standards of medical care.                                                    
3  2.0  Charges in excess of reasonable and customary ...                                                    
4  NaN                                  an insured event.                                                    
5  3.0  Treatment relating to the removal of physical ...                                                    

Table 16:
      1 The Company shall be responsible for contesting unjustified claims against the Insured/Insured Person
0   NaN  and providing indemnity for the damages, which...                                                   
1   NaN  be provided against damages, the damages must ...                                                   
2   NaN  approved by the Company or under a judicial de...                                                   
3   2.0  If there is a legal action in process against ...                                                   
4   NaN  Company may conduct the legal action, includin...                                                   
5   NaN  expense in the name of the Insured/Insured Per...                                                   
6   3.0  The Company will have the right, but in no cas...                                                   
7   NaN  the Insured/Insured Person the defense of any ...                                                   
8   NaN  proceedings and in the settlement of any claim...                                                   
9   NaN                   Company may relinquish the same.                                                   
10  4.0  In the event the Company, in its sole discreti...                                                   

Table 17:
                             Word /s Specific meaning
0            Bank A bank or any financial institution
1   Carpet Area 1. for the main building unit of Y...
2   area covered by the external walls, areas unde...
3   or verandah area and exclusive open terrace ar...
4   by the internal partition walls of the residen...
5   2. for any enclosed structure on the same site...
6                                      structure; and
7   3. for any balcony, verandah area, terrace are...
8   that is part of Your Home, it is 25% of its ne...
9   Commencement It is the date and time from whic...
10           Date It is shown in the Policy Schedule.
11  Cost of Construction The amount required to co...
12              This amount is calculated as follows:
13  a. For residential structure of Your Home incl...
14  Carpet Area of the structure in square metres ...
15  Commencement Date. The Rate of Cost of Constru...
16  construction of Your Home Building at the Comm...
17  You and accepted by Us and shown in the Policy...
18                                                NaN
19  b. For additional structures : the amount that...
20  of Construction at the Commencement Date as de...
21                                    accepted by Us.
22  Endorsement A written amendment to the Policy ...
23  exclusions or conditions of an insurance Polic...
24                               the original policy.
25  Home Contents Those articles or things in Your...
26  structure of Your Home. Home Contents may cons...
27                                          Contents.
28  General Contents General Contents are all the ...
29  electronic items and goods, antennae, solar pa...

Table 18:
              Unnamed: 0 equipment, electrical equipment (including those fitted on walls ), clothing and apparel\rand items of similar nature.
0      Valuable Contents  Valuable Contents of Your Home consist of item...                                                                    
1                Insured  The Person/s who has/have purchased Insurance ...                                                                    
2       Insured Property  Your Home Building and Home Contents, or any i...                                                                    
3    Kutcha Construction  Building(s) having walls and/or roofs of woode...                                                                    
4                Word /s                                   Specific meaning                                                                    
5          Policy Period  Policy period means the period commencing from...                                                                    
6        Policy Schedule  The document accompanying and forming part of ...                                                                    
7                Premium  The premium is the amount You pay Us for this ...                                                                    
8     Pucca Construction       Construction other than Kutcha Construction.                                                                    
9                 Spouse                              Your wife or husband.                                                                    
10           Sum Insured  The amount shown as Sum Insured in the Policy ...                                                                    
11            Total Loss  A  situation  where  the  Insured  Property  o...                                                                    
12  We, Us, Our, Insurer  The Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company...                                                                    
13    You, Your, Insured  TheInsuredPerson/swhohas/havepurchasedInsuranc...                                                                    
14    Your Home Building  Your Home Building is a building consisting of...                                                                    

Table 19:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [Unnamed: 0, Column A, Column B]
Index: []

Table 20:
   Unnamed: 0 We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction Unnamed: 1
0         NaN  caused to the Insured Property by caused to th...                                                         NaN
1         1.0  Fire caused by burning of Insured Property by ...                                                         NaN
2         NaN                              any Public Authority.                                                         NaN
3         2.0                             Explosion or Implosion                                                           -
4         3.0                                          Lightning                                                           -
5         4.0            Earthquake, volcanic eruption, or other                                                           -
6         NaN                              convulsions of nature                                                         NaN
7         5.0       Storm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, Hurricane,                                                           -
8         NaN             Tornado, Tsunami, Flood and Inundation                                                         NaN

Table 21:
    Unnamed: 0                                           Column A                                           Column B
0          NaN   We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction  We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruc...
1          NaN                  caused to the Insured Property by                     caused to the Insured Property
2          6.0          Subsidence of the land on which Your Home                                          caused by
3          NaN              Building stands, Landslide, Rockslide     a. normal cracking, settlement or bedding down
4          NaN                                                NaN                                 of new structures,
5          NaN                                                NaN           b. the settlement or movement of made up
6          NaN                                                NaN                                            ground,
7          NaN                                                NaN                       c. coastal or river erosion,
8          NaN                                                NaN                             d. defective design or
9          NaN                                                NaN      workmanship or use of defective materials, or
10         NaN                                                NaN                       e. demolition, construction,
11         NaN                                                NaN  structural alterations or repair of any property,
12         NaN                                                NaN                     or groundworks or excavations.
13         7.0                Bush fire, Forest fire, Jungle fire                                                  -
14         8.0     Impact damage of any kind, i.e., damage caused     caused by pressure waves caused by aircraft or
15         NaN  by impact of, or collision caused by any external  other aerial or space devices travelling at so...
16         NaN  physical object (e.g. vehicle, falling trees, ...                                 supersonic speeds.
17         NaN                                         wall etc.)                                                NaN
18         9.0                         Missile testing operations                                                  -
19        10.0                   Riot, Strikes, Malicious Damages                                          caused by
20         NaN                                                NaN           a. temporary or permanent dispossession,
21         NaN                                                NaN        confiscation, commandeering, requisition or
22         NaN                                                NaN      destruction by order of the government or any
23         NaN                                                NaN                                  lawful authority,
24         NaN                                                NaN                                                 or
25         NaN                                                NaN    b. temporary or permanent dispossession of Your
26         NaN                                                NaN         Home by unlawful occupation by any person.
27        11.0                                  Acts of terrorism                       Exclusions and Excess as per
28         NaN        (Coverage as per Terrorism Clause attached)                         Terrorism Clause attached.

Table 22:
   Unnamed: 0  ... We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction\rcaused to the Insured Property
0        12.0  ...                                                  -                                
1        13.0  ...  a.repairsoralterationsinYourHomeorthe\rbuildin...                                
2        14.0  ...  if it is\ra.of any article or thing outside Yo...                                

[3 rows x 3 columns]

Table 23:
         Time for which cover in force       Refund of premium
0   For a period not exceeding 15 days  90% of the Annual rate
1         Exceeding 15 days to 1 month  85% of the Annual rate
2        Exceeding 1 month to 2 months  70% of the Annual rate
3        Exceeding 2 month to 3 months  60% of the Annual rate
4        Exceeding 3 month to 4 months  50% of the Annual rate
5        Exceeding 4 month to 5 months  40% of the Annual rate
6        Exceeding 5 month to 6 months  30% of the Annual rate
7        Exceeding 6 month to 7 months  25% of the Annual rate
8        Exceeding 7 month to 8 months  20% of the Annual rate
9        Exceeding 8 month to 9 months  15% of the Annual rate
10   For the period Exceeding 9 months               No Refund

Table 24:
                  Covers                                    Claim Documents
0                    NaN  • Medical reports and discharge summary issued...
1                    NaN  medical records from the medical practitioner ...
2                    NaN  of treatment and details of treatment rendered...
3                    NaN  • Original hospital bills with proper descript...
4   Emergency Accidental                          towards expenses incurred
5        Hospitalization  • Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s P...
6                    NaN  • Name, Address and Phone number of the local ...
7                    NaN  • And any other document as may be appropriate...
8                    NaN                   under this section of the Policy
9                    NaN                                      FIR/MLC copy
10                   NaN        Prescription from the medical practitioner
11         OPD Emergency                                                NaN
12                   NaN   Original bills with proper description of se...
13      Medical Expenses                                                NaN
14                   NaN                          towards expenses incurred
15                   NaN                                   Accidental Death
16                   NaN  • Police report in original if the accident sh...
17                   NaN  • Death Certificate clearly stating the reason...
18                   NaN            • Post Mortem Report (In case of death)
19                   NaN                      • Detailed Sequence of events
20                   NaN  • Medical records giving the details of accide...
21                   NaN  • Certificate of disability from civil surgeon...
22                   NaN             doctor authorized by state government.
23                   NaN         • Medical report from the attending doctor
24                   NaN  • Valid ticket or certificate from the Common ...
25     Personal Accident                                                NaN
26                   NaN  bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier...
27                Covers                                                NaN
28                   NaN                 Permanent and Partial Disablement:
29                   NaN  • Police report in original if the accident sh...
30                   NaN                      • Detailed Sequence of events
31                   NaN  • Medical records giving the details of accide...
32                   NaN  • Certificate of disability from civil surgeon...
33                   NaN             doctor authorized by state government.
34                   NaN  • Valid ticket or certificate from the Common ...
35                   NaN  bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier...
36                   NaN  Depending upon the peculiarity of the case, ad...
37                   NaN                                          asked for

Table 25:
                    Covers                                    Claim Documents
0                      NaN  Medical reports and discharge summary issued b...
1                      NaN  medical records from the medical practitioner ...
2                      NaN  of treatment and details of treatment rendered...
3        Emergency Medical  • Original hospital bills with proper descript...
4     Expenses – Illness /                          towards expenses incurred
5                  Disease  • Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s P...
6                      NaN  • Name, Address and Phone number of the local ...
7                      NaN  • And any other document as may be appropriate...
8                      NaN                   under this section of the Policy
9                      NaN  • Medical reports (Presenting complain, Diagno...
10                     NaN  etc.) and transportation details issued by the...
11                     NaN  report by the attending Medical Practitioner f...
12                     NaN  and details of treatment rendered along with t...
13                     NaN                                        evacuation;
14                     NaN  • Documentary proof for all expenses incurred ...
15                     NaN  • Copy of the death certificate,(Also providin...
16      Emergency  Medical                                                NaN
17                     NaN                circumstances and cause of death; )
18            Evacuation &                                                NaN
19                     NaN  • Copy of the postmortem certificate, if condu...
20  Repatriation of Mortal                                                NaN
21                     NaN  • Documentary proof for expenses incurred towa...
22                 remains                                                NaN
23                     NaN  including the name of the airlines, burial det...
24                     NaN                      with bifurcation of expenses.
25                     NaN  • In case of transportation of the body of the...
26                     NaN  receipt for expenses incurred towards preparat...
27                     NaN  the deceased and also for the transportation o...
28                     NaN       • Quotation or estimate of repatriation cost
29                     NaN  • Invoices (Itemized) and money receipts in or...
30                     NaN  • Dental Records (Presenting complain, diagnos...
31                     NaN                                            reports
32        Dental Treatment                                                NaN
33                     NaN                     • Prescription from the doctor
34                Expenses                                                NaN
35                     NaN  • Name, address, contact no, fax no, e-mail id...
36                     NaN  in India Invoices (itemized) and Money receipt...
37                     NaN  • Medical record of the patient. Discharge Sum...
38                     NaN  treatment given, etc.) Certificate from the Tr...
39     Compassionate Visit  for a companion (If no adult member from the f...
40                     NaN  • Money receipts in original for expenses incu...
41                     NaN                    insured/Immediate Family Member
42                     NaN  • Police report confirming the incident. It sh...
43         Hijack Distress                    insured and period of hijacking
44     Allowance (Airways)  • Letter from the airline clearly stating peri...
45                     NaN  • Coverage details.(e.g. photograph, videos, n...
46            Child Escort   Original ticket(s) used for the travel by th...
47                     NaN           • Air tickets along with boarding passes
48   Total Loss of checked                                                NaN
49                     NaN                            • Copy of baggage tag’s
50    in Baggage (Airways)                                                NaN
51                     NaN  • Property Irregularity Report issued by the C...

Table 26:
                  Covers                                         Unnamed: 0  Claim Documents
0                    NaN                              baggage’s checked-in.              NaN
1                    NaN  • Original Certificate from airline authoritie...              NaN
2                    NaN                               compensation details              NaN
3                    NaN  • Adequate proof of ownership of items contain...              NaN
4                    NaN  excess of Rs.5000/- under Total loss of Checke...              NaN
5                    NaN                    • Air tickets and boarding pass              NaN
6                    NaN  • Property Irregularity Report issued by the C...              NaN
7                    NaN  • Certificate from airline authorities clearly...              NaN
8    Delay of Checked-in                                    of the baggage.              NaN
9      Baggage (Airways)  • Original bills towards toiletries, medicatio...              NaN
10                   NaN                        Delay of Checked-in Baggage              NaN
11                   NaN  • Letter/communication clearly stating the com...              NaN
12                   NaN                               Airlines/Third Party              NaN
13                   NaN  • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured...              NaN
14                   NaN                                        applicable)              NaN
15                   NaN  • Medical reports and doctors statement if tri...              NaN
16                   NaN                           reasons. (if applicable)              NaN
17                   NaN  • Termination letter from the Company if trip ...              NaN
18                   NaN                                        applicable)              NaN
19                   NaN  • Letter from the airlines clearly mentioning ...              NaN
20                   NaN                              flight(if applicable)              NaN
21                   NaN  • Proof of material loss or damage to the prop...              NaN
22     Trip Cancellation                                                NaN              NaN
23                   NaN                                        applicable)              NaN
24   and/or Interruption                                                NaN              NaN
25                   NaN  • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all ...              NaN
26                   NaN  • Copy of new itinerary in case trip got resch...              NaN
27                   NaN                                         applicable              NaN
28                   NaN  •Copies of reimbursement statements issued by ...              NaN
29                   NaN  rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or o...              NaN
30                   NaN  insurance Company providing reimbursement to y...              NaN
31                   NaN  • All original bills and receipts for expenses...              NaN
32                   NaN  All original bills and receipts for additional...              NaN
33                   NaN  expenses and accommodation charges due to inte...              NaN
34                   NaN  • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all ...              NaN
35                   NaN  • Copy of new itinerary in case trip got resch...              NaN
36                   NaN  • Copies of reimbursement statements issued by...              NaN
37     Missed Connection  rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or o...              NaN
38             (Airways)  insurance Company providing reimbursement to y...              NaN
39                   NaN  • All original bills and receipts for expenses...              NaN
40                   NaN  • All original bills and receipts for addition...              NaN
41                   NaN  expenses and accommodation charges due to inte...              NaN
42                   NaN  • Original bills and receipts towards reasonab...              NaN
43  Trip Delay (Airways)                                  meals and lodging              NaN
44                   NaN  • Letter from the airline clearly stating the ...              NaN

Table 27:
                     Covers                                    Claim Documents
0                       NaN  • Copy of boarding pass for the schedule trip ...
1                       NaN          • Covering Letter with sequence of events
2                       NaN  • Letter in original mentioning the reason wit...
3                 Emergency  concern authority where you were originally su...
4         accommodation due                                       confirmation
5   to Trip Delay (Airways)  • Money receipt in original for the expenses m...
6                       NaN                                      accommodation
7                       NaN   All original bills and receipts for addition...
8                       NaN                                           expenses
9              Flight Delay  • Copies of reimbursement statements issued by...
10                      NaN  rental agency, travel agent or other similar e...
11                      NaN        providing reimbursement to you for the loss
12                      NaN  • Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage...
13                      NaN  • Original letter from the concerned Airline c...
14             Over Booked-                                                NaN
15                      NaN  next alternative transportation is available w...
16           Common Carrier                                                NaN
17                      NaN  • Money receipt in original for the expenses m...
18                (Airways)                                                NaN
19                      NaN  incurred for staying in a similar hotel or pur...
20                      NaN  • Original Air ticket/itinerary, where you wer...
21                      NaN  All original bills and receipts for additiona...
22                      NaN                 expenses and accommodation charges
23            Bounced Hotel                                                NaN
24                      NaN   In case of superior class of accommodation, ...
25                  booking                                                NaN
26                      NaN  the cost of pre-booked hotel is not available ...
27                      NaN           Alternate Accommodation Service Provider
28                      NaN  • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured...
29                      NaN                                        applicable)
30                      NaN  • Medical reports and doctors statement if tri...
31                      NaN                           reasons. (if applicable)
32                      NaN  • Termination letter from the Company if trip ...
33                      NaN                                        applicable)
34                      NaN  • Proof of material loss or damage to the prop...
35     Travel Inconvenience                                        applicable)
36                      NaN   Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the...
37                      NaN  • Copies of reimbursement statements issued by...
38                      NaN  rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or o...
39                      NaN  insurance Company providing reimbursement to y...
40                      NaN  • Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending u...
41                      NaN              • Police report (wherever applicable)
42                      NaN  • All original bills and receipts for expenses...
43                      NaN               Copy of complete schedule itinerary
44                      NaN  • Copy of new itinerary in case trip got resch...
45  Travel Service Supplier                                                NaN
46                      NaN                                         applicable
47               Insolvency                                                NaN
48                      NaN  • Copies of reimbursement statements issued by...
49                      NaN  facility, car rental agency, travel agent, hot...

Table 28:
                   Covers                                    Claim Documents
0                     NaN  other insurance Company providing reimbursemen...
1                     NaN  • All original bills and receipts for expenses...
2                     NaN   All original bills and receipts for addition...
3                     NaN                 expenses and accommodation charges
4                     NaN                             Car rental agreement.
5                     NaN                             Copy of Police Report
6                     NaN  Copy of the car rental company’s accident dam...
7                     NaN  of the costs incurred, Photo evidence of the d...
8       Car Rental Excess  other documents confirming the breakup of the ...
9               Insurance  accidental damage or loss for which the car re...
10                    NaN  Original Payment Receipt from Car Rental Comp...
11                    NaN                                              claim
12                    NaN   Copy of your credit card statement or paymen...
13                    NaN  damages claimed, copy of the driving license o...
14                    NaN                                • FIR/Police Report
15                    NaN  • Sequence of the events leading to Personal L...
16     Personal Liability                                • Witness Statement
17                    NaN     • Copy of policy report(in case of legal case)
18                    NaN  • Copy of the court award- Notice from the Thi...
19                    NaN  • Medical report from the attending doctor abr...
20                    NaN               • Death Certificate (For Death Case)
21                    NaN              • Post Mortem Report (For Death Case)
22                    NaN                      • Copy of FIR / Police Report
23         Legal expenses                                                NaN
24                    NaN                               • Sequence of events
25                    NaN  • Certificate of disability from civil surgeon...
26                    NaN                    authorized by state government.
27                    NaN  • Original invoices and receipts of legal expe...
28                    NaN  • Copy of first information report/policy report.
29                    NaN  • Copy of final investigator report/non-detect...
30                    NaN                     authorities/magisterial order.
31          Home Burglary                                                NaN
32                    NaN  • Original receipts for all items claimed. If ...
33   Insurance (Contents)                                                NaN
34                    NaN              the date, place and price of purchase
35                    NaN                                        • Panchnama
36                    NaN  • Letter of undertaking/subrogation form obtai...
37                    NaN            • Fire Department report/Police report.
38                    NaN  • Original receipts for all items claimed. If ...
39  Chola Ms Bharat Griha              the date, place and price of purchase
40          Raksha Policy                                        • Panchnama
41                    NaN  • Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending u...
42                    NaN  additional documents/information’s will be ask...

Table 29:
                   Covers                                    Claim Documents
0                     NaN  FIR/Police report lodged at the place of loss ...
1                     NaN  • Details of items robbed -Details of funds (C...
2                     NaN                      available) available with you
3     Financial Emergency                                                NaN
4                     NaN                               • Sequence of events
5              Assistance                                                NaN
6                     NaN  • Please confirm if you are staying alone or w...
7                     NaN       • Details of travel history for past 5 years
8                     NaN  • Details of travel insurance taken in past 3 ...
9                     NaN                                   • Medical Record
10                    NaN          • Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor
11               Pet Care  • Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in or...
12                    NaN  • A confirmation letter from the person, who w...
13                    NaN                                             abroad
14       Sports Equipment   Copy of Hire Agreement in case of hired spor...
15                  cover        Receipts for items lost, stolen or damaged
16                    NaN                                Operator’s license
17       Adventure Sports                                                NaN
18                    NaN                             Copy of Police report
19                    NaN                             • Booking confirmation
20                    NaN   Written proof from the public transport on t...
21                    NaN                                            Carrier
22                    NaN  • Money receipt in original for the expenses m...
23           Cruise cover                                                NaN
24                    NaN                                      accommodation
25                    NaN   Medical Report on the illness or accidental ...
26                    NaN        Medical Officer of the ship (if applicable)
27                    NaN   All original bills and receipts for expenses...
28  Debit / Credit Card -  • Copy of first information report/policy report.
29                  Fraud   Bank Statement on the transactions made with...
30                    NaN  • Copy of first information report/policy report.
31                    NaN   Original invoice/receipt evidencing the proo...
32        Loss of Gadgets                                                NaN
33                    NaN   Ownership of the lost gadget, or document ev...
34                    NaN  same, if such gadget is provided by his/her em...
35                    NaN                                  • Medical records
36              Alternate                                                NaN
37                    NaN  • Medical certificate from the attending physi...
38    Employee/Substitute                                                NaN
39                    NaN  • Original tickets and boarding pass of the su...
40       Employee Expense                                                NaN
41                    NaN  • Proof towards obtaining a new ticket for alt...
42                    NaN  • Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage...
43                    NaN  • Original letter from the concern authority m...
44                    NaN  contracted to be paid due to the booking. Also...
45     Loss of Deposit or                                                NaN
46                    NaN                                     details If any
47  Cancellation (Hotel &                                                NaN
48                    NaN  • Original tickets/itinerary, where you were o...
49               Airline)                                                NaN
50                    NaN  • Medical record (If the cancellation was due ...
51                    NaN  • Money receipt in advance for the amount paid...
52                    NaN                                           booking.
53                    NaN       • Documents as per Personal Accident Section
54     Travel Loan Secure                                                NaN
55                    NaN   Loan Statement from the Bank with the Outsta...

Table 30:
                   Covers                                    Claim Documents
0           Mobility Aids                                                NaN
1                     NaN   Dr. Prescription and Original Payment receip...
2               Allowance                                                NaN
3                     NaN                                  • Medical Records
4                     NaN          • Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor
5   Travel with Pet cover  • Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in or...
6                     NaN  • A confirmation letter from the pet boarding ...
7                     NaN                        during your hospitalisation
8                     NaN   Written proof from the public transport on t...
9        Missed Departure                                                NaN
10                    NaN            or delayed arrival of the inward flight
11                    NaN  • Letter from the airline clearly stating the ...
12     Flight Diversion &                                                NaN
13                    NaN          • Covering Letter with sequence of events
14           Cancellation                                                NaN
15                    NaN   Original Air ticket/itinerary, where you wer...
16                    NaN  • Property Irregularity Report issued by the C...
17       Baggage Delay in                                                NaN
18                    NaN  • Certificate from the Common Carrier clearly ...
19         Common carrier                                                NaN
20                    NaN                           delivery of the baggage.
21                    NaN                            • Copy of baggage tag’s
22                    NaN  • Property Irregularity Report issued by the C...
23        Baggage Loss in                              baggage’s checked-in.
24         Common carrier   FIR/Policy complaint on loss of baggage• Ori...
25                    NaN  stating that baggage has been lost along with ...
26                    NaN  • Adequate proof of ownership of items contain...
27              Emergency  Authentication letter from the Common Carrier...
28      accommodation due  News Paper cutting or media coverage availabl...
29          to Trip Delay                of the Insured Contingency details.
30                    NaN                             Copy of Police Report
31    Loss of baggage and                                                NaN
32                    NaN   Original Payment receipts for the expenses i...
33    Personal Belongings                                                NaN
34                    NaN                                           contents
35                    NaN                             Copy of Police Report
36                    NaN          Receipts for replacing locks and/or keys
37        Key Replacement                                                NaN
38                    NaN                                     Cost of Labor
39                    NaN      Copy of Rental car Agreement (if applicable)
40                    NaN                             Copy of Police Report
41      Loss of Documents   Copy of application made to the respective G...
42                    NaN                                  remaking the same
43                    NaN  • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured...
44                    NaN                                        applicable)
45                    NaN  • Medical reports and doctors statement if tri...
46    Change Fee Coverage                           reasons. (if applicable)
47              (Airways)  • Termination letter from the Company if trip ...
48                    NaN                                        applicable)
49                    NaN  • Proof of material loss or damage to the prop...
50                    NaN                                        applicable)

Table 31:
                   Covers                                    Claim Documents
0                     NaN   Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the...
1                     NaN  • Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending u...
2                     NaN              • Police report (wherever applicable)
3                     NaN         Tickets originally booked and rescheduled
4                     NaN                                     Police Report
5          Cyber Security                                                NaN
6                     NaN   Documentary proof evidencing the fraud commi...
7                     NaN   Written statement from the Accommodation pro...
8      Hotel Cancellation                                                NaN
9                     NaN                   confirmed booking of the Insured
10                    NaN                                     Police Report
11                    NaN   Provide proof that it was necessary to take ...
12                    NaN  made under lost wages. The Company will ask th...
13                    NaN  Insured’s employer  that the Insured took unpa...
14         Identity Theft                             information notarized;
15                    NaN   Submit copies of any demands, notices, summo...
16                    NaN                 in connection with a covered loss;
17                    NaN   Authorisation for us to obtain records and o...
18                    NaN      applicable) within 3 days of making the claim
19                    NaN  • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all ...
20                    NaN  • Copies of reimbursement statements issued by...
21                    NaN  agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other si...
22   Carrier Cancellation                                                NaN
23                    NaN  Company providing reimbursement to you for the...
24                    NaN  • All original bills and receipts for expenses...
25                    NaN   Written proof from the Common Carrier of the...
26         Digital Camera                                Proof of Ownership
27              Insurance   Bills and documents for the repairs or repla...
28                    NaN  • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all ...
29                    NaN  • Copies of reimbursement statements issued by...
30  All Risk Cancellation  rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or o...
31                    NaN  insurance Company providing reimbursement to y...
32                    NaN  • All original bills and receipts for expenses...

Table 32:
  Unnamed: 0 LIST I – NON MEDICAL EXPENSES EXCLUDED UNDER THE POLICY
0    Sl. No.                                               Item     
1          1                                          BABY FOOD     
2          2                             BABY UTILITIES CHARGES     
3          3                                    BEAUTY SERVICES     
4          4                                     BELTS / BRACES     
5          5                                               BUDS     
6          6                               COLD PACK / HOT PACK     

Table 33:
     7                                         CARRY BAGS
0    8                           EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
1    9  FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’S DIET PROVID...
2   10                                           LEGGINGS
3   11                                    LAUNDRY CHARGES
4   12                                      MINERAL WATER
5   13                                       SANITARY PAD
6   14                                  TELEPHONE CHARGES
7   15                                     GUEST SERVICES
8   16                                      CREPE BANDAGE
9   17                                 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
10  18                                      EYELET COLLAR
11  19                                             SLINGS
12  20  BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SA...
13  21  SERVICES CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHA...
14  22                                  TELEVISON CHARGES
15  23                                         SURCHARGES
16  24                                  ATTENDANT CHARGES
17  25  EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH F...
18  26                                  BIRTH CERTIFICATE
19  27                                CERTIFICATE CHARGES
20  28                                    COURIER CHARGES
21  29                                 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
22  30                                MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
23  31                                    MEDICAL RECORDS
24  32                                PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
25  33                                   MORTUARY CHARGES
26  34                               WALKING AIDS CHARGES
27  35   OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)
28  36                                             SPACER
29  37                                         SPIROMETRE
30  38                                      NEBULIZER KIT
31  39                                      STEAM INHALER
32  40                                           ARMSLING
33  41                                        THERMOMETER
34  42                                    CERVICAL COLLAR
35  43                                            SPLINLT
36  44                                 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
37  45                    KNEE BRACES (LONG/SHORT/HINGED)
38  46              KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
39  47                                 LUMBO SACRAL BELTT
40  48             NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
41  49                                   AMBULANCE COLLAR
42  50                                AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT

Table 34:
      51                                   ABDOMINAL BINDER  Unnamed: 0
0   52.0   PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES – SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES         NaN
1   53.0                                 SUGAR FREE TABLETS         NaN
2   54.0  CREAMS POWDER LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYA...         NaN
3   55.0                                     ECG ELECTRODES         NaN
4   56.0                                             GLOVES         NaN
5   57.0                                   NEBULISATION KIT         NaN
6   58.0  ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED (DELIVERYKIT...         NaN
7   59.0                                        KIDNEY TRAY         NaN
8   60.0                                               MASK         NaN
9   61.0                                        OUNCE GLASS         NaN
10  62.0                                        OXYGEN MASK         NaN
11  63.0                               PELVIC TRACTION BELT         NaN
12  64.0                                            PAN CAN         NaN
13  65.0                                       TROLLY COVER         NaN
14  66.0                                UROMETER, URINE JUG         NaN
15  67.0                                          AMBULANCE         NaN
16  68.0                                     VASOFIX SAFETY         NaN
17   NaN  LIST 11 – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO R...         NaN
18   1.0          BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)         NaN
19   2.0                                          HAND WASH         NaN
20   3.0                                         SHOE COVER         NaN
21   4.0                                               CAPS         NaN
22   5.0                                     CRADLE CHARGES         NaN
23   6.0                                               COMB         NaN
24   7.0                      EAU0DE-COLOGNE/ROOM FRESHNERS         NaN
25   8.0                                         FOOT COVER         NaN
26   9.0                                               GOWN         NaN
27  10.0                                           SLIPPERS         NaN
28  11.0                                       TISSUE PAPER         NaN
29  12.0                                        TOOTH PASTE         NaN
30  13.0                                        TOOTH BRUSH         NaN
31  14.0                                            BED PAN         NaN
32  15.0                                          FACE MASK         NaN
33  16.0                                         FLEXI MASK         NaN
34  17.0                                        HAND HOLDER         NaN
35  18.0                                         SPUTUM CUP         NaN
36  19.0                               DISINFECTANT LOTIONS         NaN
37  20.0                                         LUXURY TAX         NaN
38  21.0                                               HVAC         NaN
39  22.0                              HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES         NaN
40  23.0                            AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES         NaN
41  24.0                            IM IV INJECTION CHARGES         NaN

Table 35:
      25                                        CLEAN SHEET  Unnamed: 0
0   26.0                             BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET         NaN
1   27.0                                      ADMISSION KIT         NaN
2   28.0                             DIABETIC CHART CHARGES         NaN
3   29.0     DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE         NaN
4   30.0                        DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES         NaN
5   31.0                                DAILY CHART CHARGES         NaN
6   32.0              ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES         NaN
7   33.0      EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE         NaN
8   34.0                               FILE OPENING CHARGES         NaN
9   35.0  INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLA...         NaN
10  36.0             PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG         NaN
11  37.0                              PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES         NaN
12   NaN  LIST III – ITEM THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO P...         NaN
13   1.0                                 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM         NaN
14   2.0  DISPOSABLE RAZORS CHARGES (FOR SITE PREPARATIONS)         NaN
15   3.0                                            EYE PAD         NaN
16   4.0                                         EYE SHEILD         NaN
17   5.0                                       CAMERA COVER         NaN
18   6.0                                   DVD, CD, CHARGES         NaN
19   7.0                                         GAUSE SOFT         NaN
20   8.0                                              GAUZE         NaN
21   9.0                   WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES         NaN
22  10.0              ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS         NaN
23  11.0                                   MICROSCOPE COVER         NaN
24  12.0           SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL, SHAVER         NaN
25  13.0                                     SURGICAL DRILL         NaN
26  14.0                                            EYE KIT         NaN
27  15.0                                          EYE DRAPE         NaN
28  16.0                                         X-RAY FILM         NaN
29  17.0                           BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES         NaN
30  18.0                                             COTTON         NaN
31  19.0                                     COTTON BANDAGE         NaN
32  20.0                                      SURGICAL TAPE         NaN
33  21.0                                              APRON         NaN
34  22.0                                          TORNIQUET         NaN
35  23.0                         ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE         NaN
36   NaN  LIST IV – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO C...         NaN
37   1.0                   ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES         NaN
38   2.0  HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC PU...         NaN
39   3.0                                    URINE CONTAINER         NaN
40   4.0  BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKI...         NaN
41   5.0                                      BIPAP MACHINE         NaN
42   6.0                             CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS         NaN

Table 36:
     7                               INFUSION PUMP – COST
0    8         HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\DISINFECTANTS ETC
1    9  NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES – DIETICIAN CHARGES...
2   10                                            HIV KIT
3   11                               ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
4   12                                           LOZENGES
5   13                                        MOUTH PAINT
6   14                                VACCINATION CHARGES
7   15                                    ALCOHOLT SWABES
8   16                          SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
9   17                                GLUCOMETER & STRIPS
10  18                                          URINE BAG

Table 37:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [This is for IRDAI Information Only]
Index: []

Table 38:
  ome of the contents shown in policy wordings might be applicable for certain Sections and not generic, e.g. some
0  ontents are useful for “Trip Delay” cover only...                                                              
1  overage offered to the Policyholder/Insured; e...                                                              
2  erms and conditions related to this Specific S...                                                              
3  xclusions or general conditions which might no...                                                              
4  e shown. Idea of doing this is to make policy ...                                                              
5                            nformation to customer.                                                              



==================================================
DOCUMENT: HDFHLIP23024V072223.pdf
==================================================

--- DOCUMENT TEXT ---

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  1 | P a g e                     EASY HEALTH  
 
 
Preamble  
 
HDFC ERGO General  Insurance Company Limited  will cover all Insured Persons under this Policy upto the 
Sum Insured. The insurance cover is governed by, and subject to, the terms, conditions and exclusions of 
this Policy.  
 
Section A. Other Important Terms You should know  
 
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Policy Wording have the meanings ascribed to 
them wherever they appear in this Policy and, where appropriate, references to the singular include 
references to the plural; references to the male include the female and references to any statutory 
enactment include subsequent changes to the same:  
1. Standard Definitions  
Def. 1.  Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and 
violent means . 
 
Def. 2.  Any one illness  means continuous Period of illness and it i ncludes relapse within 45 days 
from  the  date  of  last  consultation  with  the  Hospital/Nursing  Home  where treatment may 
have been taken.  
 
Def. 3.  AYUSH HOSPITAL  means a n AYUSH Hospital is a healt hcare facility wherein 
medical/surgical/para -surgical treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by 
AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) comprising of any of the following:  
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or  
b. Teaching hospital attached to A YUSH College recognized by the  Central Government 
/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or  
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co -located within -patient healthcare facility of any 
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner  and must comply with all the following criterion:  
i. Having at least 5 in -patient beds;  
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner  in ch arge round the clock;  
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;  
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the 
insurance company’s  authorized representative.  
Def. 4.  AYUSH Day Care Centre  means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary 
Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered 
with the local authorities, wherever applicable an d having facilities for carrying out treatment 
procedures and medical or surgical/para -surgical interventions or both under the supervision of 
registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in -patient services and must 
comply with all t he following criterion:  
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner  (s) in charge;  
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;  
iii. Maintaining daily recor ds of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized representative.  
Def. 5.  Cashless facility  means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, 
of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordan ce with the policy terms and 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  2 | P a g e                     conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre -
authorization approved.  
 
Def. 6.  Condition Precedent  means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability 
under the policy is conditi onal upon.  
 
Def. 7.  Congenital Anomaly  refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is 
abnormal with reference to form, structure or position  
 
(a)  Internal Congenital Anomaly  - Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and 
accessible parts o f the body  
(b) External Congenital Anomaly -  Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body  
 
Def. 8.  Co-payment means a cost -sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that 
provides that the policyholder/insured will bear a specif ied percentage of the admissible claim 
amount. A co -payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.  
  
Def. 9.  Cumulative Bonus  means any increase in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without 
an associated increase in premium.  
 
Def. 10.  Critical Illness means Cancer of specif ied severity, Open Chest CABG, First Heart Attack of 
specified severity, Kidney Failure requiring regular dialysis, Major Organ/Bone Marrow 
Transplant, Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms, Permanent Paralysis of Limbs, Stroke 
resulting in Permanent  Symptoms as defined below only:   
 
i) Cancer of specified severity : 
 A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth & spread of malignant 
cells with invasion & destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported 
by histological evide nce of malignancy & confirmed by a pathologist.  
  The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.  
  The following are excluded:  
 Tumours showing the malignant changes of carcinoma in situ & tumours 
which are histologically described as pre -malign ant or non -invasive, including 
but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN -1, CIN -
2 & CIN -3.  
 Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma  
 All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gle ason 
score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification 
T2N0M0.........  
 Papillary micro - carcinoma of the thyroid less than 1 cm in diameter  
 Chronic lymphocyctic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3  
 Microcarcinoma of the bladde r  
 All tumours in the presence of HIV infection.  
 
ii) Open Chest CABG : 
 The actual undergoing of open chest surgery for the correction of one or more 
coronary arteries, which is/are narrowed or blocked, by coronary artery bypass graft 
(CABG). The Diagnosis mus t be supported by coronary angiography and realisation of 
the surgery has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner  
  The following are excluded:  
 Angioplasty and / or Any other intra -arterial procedures  
 Any Key -hole surgery or laser surgery  
 
iii) First Heart Attack of Specified Severity : 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  3 | P a g e                      The first occurrence of myocardial infarction which means the death of a portion of the 
heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area.  
  The diagnosis for this will be evidenced by all o f the following criteria:  
 A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of Acute 
Myocardial Infarction (for e.g. typical chest pain).  
 New characteristic electrocardiogram changes.  
 Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins o r other specific 
biochemical markers.  
   The following are excluded:  
 Non -ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) with elevation of 
Troponin I or T.  
 Other acute Coronary Syndromes.  
 Any type of angina pectoris  
 
iv) Kidney Failure  requiring Regular  Dialysis : 
 End stage renal disease presented as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to 
function, as a result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal 
dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out.  
  The diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner  
 
v) Major Organ/ Bone Marrow Transplant:  
  The actual undergoing of a transplant of:  
 One of the following human organs - heart, lung, liver, pancreas, kidney, that 
resulted from irreversib le end -stage failure of the relevant organ or;  
 Human bone marrow using hematopoietic stem cells.  
 
 The undergoing of a transplant must be confirmed by specialist medical practitioner.  
  The following are excluded:  
 Other Stem -cell transplants  
 Where only islets of Langerhans are transplanted  
 
vi) Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms : 
 The definite occurrence of Multiple Sclerosis .The d iagnosis must be supported by all of 
the following:   
 Investigation including typical MRI and CSF findings, which unequiv ocally 
confirm the diagnosis to be multiple Sclerosis.  
 There must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which 
must have persisted for a continuous period of at least 6 months.  
 Well documented clinical history of exacerbations and re missions of said 
symptoms or neurological deficits with at least two clinically documented 
episodes at least 1 month apart.  
  Excluded is:  
 Other causes  of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded  
vii) Permanent Paralysis of Limbs : 
 Total and irreve rsible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of 
the brain or spinal cord. A specialist Medical Practitioner (Physician / Neurologist) must 
be of the opinion that paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must 
be p resent for more than 3 months. .  
   
 
viii) Stroke resulting in Permanent Symptoms : 
 Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This 
includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intra -cranial vessel, haemorrhage 
and embolisat ion from an extracranial source.  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  4 | P a g e                      The diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner and evidenced 
by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain.  
  Evidence of permanent neurological deficit l asting for atleast 3 months has to be 
produced.  
  The following are excluded:  
 Transient ischemic attacks (TIA)  
 Traumatic injury of the brain  
 Vascular diseases affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions  
 
Def. 11.  Day Care centre  means any instit ution established for day care treatment of illness and/or 
injuries or a medical setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified 
medical pract itioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under — 
-has qualified nursing staff under its employment;  
-has  qualified medical practitioner/s in charge;  
-has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;  
-maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel  
 
Def. 12.  Day Care Procedures  means those medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure  
i. which is undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Ho spital/day care centre 
in less than 24 hours because of technological advancement,   
ii. which would have otherwise required a Hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.  
Treatment normally taken on an Out -patient basis is not included in the scope of this definiti on 
 
Def. 13.  Deductible  means a cost -sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides 
that the insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and 
for a specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash p olicies which will apply before 
any benefits are payable by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured.  
 
Def. 14.  Dental  treatment  means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth 
including examinations, filings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery.   
 
Def. 15.  Domiciliary Hospitalisation  means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in 
the normal course would require a care and treatment at a Hospital but is actually taken while 
confined at home under any of the following circumstances:  
- The condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a 
hospital, or  
- The patient takes treatment at home on account of non -availability of a room in a 
hospital  
   
Def. 16.  Disclosure of information norm  means the policy shall be void and all premiums paid hereon 
shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non -
disclosure of any material fact.  
 
Def. 17.  Emergency Care  means management for a severe illness or injury which re sults in symptoms 
which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical 
practitioner to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health.  
Def. 18.  Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately foll owing the premium due date 
during which a payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy in force without loss of 
continuity benefits such as waiting period s and coverage of Pre -Existing Diseases. Coverage is 
not available for the period for which no pr emium is received.  
 
Def. 19.  Hospital  means any institution established for in -patient care and day care treatment of 
illness and/or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  5 | P a g e                     under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the 
enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all 
minimum criteria as under :  
 has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock,  
 has at least 10 in -patient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 
and 15 in -patient beds in all other places,   
 has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock,   
 has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried  out, 
 maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized personnel.   
 
Def. 20.  Hospitalisation or Hospitalised means admission in a Hospital for a minimum of 24 
consecutive ‘In -patient Care’ hours except for spe cified procedures / treatments, where such 
admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours.  
 
Def. 21.  Illness  means  a  sickness  or  a  disease  or  pathological  condition  leading  to  the 
impairment of normal physiological function which manif ests itself during the Policy Period and 
requires medical treatment  
a) Acute Condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately be fore 
suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery.  
b) Chronic Condition - A chronic condition is defined as disease, illness, or injury that has one or 
more o f the following characteristics:  
- it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring thr ough consultations, examinations, check -ups, and 
/ or tests  
—it needs ongoing or long -term control or relief of symptoms  
— it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it  
—it continues indefinitely  
—it recurs or is likely  to recur  
 
Def. 22.  Injury  means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly 
caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a 
Medical Practitioner.  
 
Def. 23.  In-patient Care  means treatment f or which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for 
more than 24 hours for a covered event.  
 
Def. 24.  Maternity expenses  means  
i. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections during hospitalization);  
ii. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period.  
 
Def. 25.  Medical Advise  means any consultation or advise from a Medical Practitioner including the 
issuance of any prescription or follow up prescription.  
 
Def. 26.  Medical Expenses means t hose expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person 
had not been insured and no more than other Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would 
have charged for the same medical treatment.  
 
Def. 27.  Medically  Necessary  means any treatment, test, medication, or stay in Hospital or part of 
stay in Hospital which  
 Is requi red for the medical management of the Illness or injury suffered by the Insured 
Person;  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  6 | P a g e                      Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate 
medical care in scope, duration or intensity.  
 Must have been prescribed by a Medic al Practitioner.  
 Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical 
practice or by the medical community in India.  
 
Def. 28.  Medical Practitioner  means a person who holds a valid registration from the medical 
council of any state or  medical council of India or council for Indian medicine or for homeopathy 
set up by the government of India or a state government and is thereby entitled to practice 
medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of lice nse. 
 
Def. 29.  Migration  means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including 
all members under family cover and members of group health insurance policy) to transfer the 
credits gained for pre -existing conditions and time -bound exclusio ns, with the same insurer.  
 
Def. 30.  Network  Provider  means Hospital enlisted by an insurer or a TPA or jointly by an insurer and 
a TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.  
 
Def. 31.  New  Born Baby  means baby born during the Policy Period and i s aged up to 90 days.  
 
Def. 32.  Non  Network Provider means any Hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part 
of the Network  
 
Def. 33.  Notification  of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through 
any of the recognized modes of co mmunication.  
 
Def. 34.  OPD  treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated 
facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care o r in-patient  
 
Def. 35.  Portability  means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including 
all members under family cover) to transfer the credits gained for pre -existing conditions and 
time -bound exclusions, from one insurer to another ins urer.  
 
Def. 36.  Pre-existing  Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:  
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the 
policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement  or 
b) For which medical advice or treatment  was recommended by, or received from, a 
physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the 
insurer or its reinstatement.  
 
Def. 37.  Pre- Hospitalisation  Medical Expenses means the medical expenses incurred during 
predefined number of  days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:  
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured 
Person’s Hospitalisation was required, and  
ii. The In -patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalizati on is admissible by the 
Insurance Company  
 
Def. 38.  Post -Hospitalisation  Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined 
number of days immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided 
that:  
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured person’s 
hospitalization was required, and  
ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is admissible by the insurance 
company  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  7 | P a g e                      
Def. 39.  Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the  nursing council of India 
or the nursing council of any state in India  
 
Def. 40.  Reasonable & Customary Charges  means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard  
charges for a specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geog raphical 
area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of illness/ injury involved.  
 
Def. 41.  Room Rent  means the amount charged by a hospital towards room and boarding expenses 
and shall include associated medical expenses.  
 
Def. 42.  Renewal  means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual 
consent with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of 
gaining credit for pre -existing diseases, time bound exclusions and for all waiting period s. 
 
Def. 43.  Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for 
treatment of an Illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of 
diseases, relief of suffering or  prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or day care centre by 
a Medical Practitioner . 
 
Def. 44.  Unproven/Experimental treatment  means treatment including drug experimental therapy 
which is not based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or 
unproven.  
 
Def. 45.  Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under 
the constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped 
for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condi tion, or 
require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more 
sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.    
 
Def. 46.  ICU (Intensive Care Unit)  Charges  means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU 
expenses which shall include the coverage for bed, general medical support services provided to 
any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.  
 
2. Specific Definitions  
Def. 1.  Adventurous /Hazardous Sports means  any sp ort or activity involving physical exertion and skill 
in which an Insured Person participates or competes for entertainment or as part of his 
Profession whether he / she is trained or not.  
 
Def. 2.  Age or Aged  means completed years as at the Commencement Date.  
 
Def. 3.  Alternative  treatments  means forms of treatments other than treatment "Allopathy" or 
"modern medicine"  and includes Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy in the Indian context  
 
Def. 4.  AYUSH  Treatment refers to hospitalisation treatments given under Ayurveda, Yog a and 
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems.  
 
Def. 5.  Bank  Rate means the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the 
financial year in which claim has fallen due.  
 
Contribution  means essentially the right of an insurer to cal l upon other insurers liable to the 
same insured to share the cost of an indemnity claim on a rateable proportion of Sum Insured. 
This clause shall not apply to any Benefit offered on fixed benefit basis.  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  8 | P a g e                     Def. 6.  Commencement Date  means the commencement date of t his Policy a s specified in the 
Schedule.  
 
Def. 7.  Dependents  means only the family members listed below:  
i) Your legally married spouse as long as she continues to be married to You;  
ii) Your children /  Grandchildren  Aged between 91 days and 25 years if they are unmarrie d  
and financially dependent with no independent source of income. Children Aged  
between 1 to 90 Days can be covered if Newborn Baby Benefit is added by payment of 
additional premium subject to policy terms and conditions.  
iii) Your natural parents or parents that have legally adopted You, provided that the parent was 
below 65 years at his initial participation in the Easy Health Policy,  
iv) Your Parent -in-law as long as Your spouse continues to be married to You and  were below 
65 years at his initial participat ion in the Easy Health Policy  
v) Your Grandparents provided that the grandparent were below 65 years at his initial 
participation in the Easy Health Policy,  
           All Dependent parents, Parent in laws, Grand Parents must be financially dependent on You.  
 
Def. 8.  Dependent  Child means a child (natural or l egally adopted), who is unmarried, Aged between 91 
days and 25 years,  financially dependent on the primary Insured or Proposer and does not 
have his / her independent sources of income.  Children Aged between 1 t o 90 Days can be 
covered if Newborn Baby Benefit is added by payment of additional premium subject to policy 
terms and conditions.  
 
Def. 9.  Family Floater  means a Policy described as such in the Schedule where under You and Your 
Dependents named in the Schedule ar e insured under this Policy as at the Commencement 
Date.  The Sum Insured for a Family Floater means t he sum shown in the Schedule which 
represents Our maximum liability for any and all claims made by You and/or all of Your 
Dependents during the Policy Year. 
 
Def. 10.  Insured Person means You and the persons named in the Schedule.  
 
Def. 11.  Material Facts means all relevant information sought by the Company in the Proposal Form 
and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the context of 
underwritin g the risk.  
 
Def. 12.  Policy  means Your statements in the proposal form (which are the basis of this Policy), this 
policy wording (including endorsements, if any), Annexure 1 and the Schedule (as the same may 
be amended from time to time).   
 
Def. 13.  Policy Period  means th e period between the Commencement Date and the Expiry Date 
specified in the Schedule.  
 
Def. 14.  Policy Year  means a year following the Commencement Date and its subsequent annual 
anniversary.  
 
Def. 15.  Shared accommodation  means a Hospital room with two or more patient bed s. 
 
Def. 16.  Single occupancy or any higher accommodation type  means a Hospital room with only one 
patient bed.  
 
Def. 17.  Sum Insured  means the sum shown in the Schedule which represents Our maximum 
liability for each Insured Person for any and all benefits claimed for duri ng the Policy Year . 
 
Def. 18.  TPA means the third party administrator that We appoint from time to time as specified in 
the Schedule.  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  9 | P a g e                      
Def. 19.  We/Our/Us means the HDFC ERGO General  Insurance Limited.  
 
Def. 20.  You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Schedule who has con cluded this 
Policy with Us.  
 
Section B. Benefits  
 
IMPORTANT: Any claims made under these benefits will impact eligibility for Cumulative Bonus, and 
Health Checkup.  
 
 We will cover the Medical Expenses for:  We will not cover treatment , costs  or expenses for *: 
*The following exclusions apply in addition to the waiting 
periods and general exclusions specified in Section C -1,2,3  
In addition to the waiting periods (Section C-1) and 
general exclusions (Section C-2&3 ), We will also not cover 
expenses  
1. Inpatient  Benefits : This section of benefits is applicable when  
 
• An insured suffers an Accident or Illness, which is covered under this Policy  
• Hospitalisation is necessary & is done for treatment OR  
• Day care treatment is necessary and is done OR  
• Domiciliary tr eatment is necessary and is done  
1 a. In-Patient Treatment    
 
This includes  
• Hospital room rent or boarding;  
• Nursing;  
• Intensive Care Unit  
• Medical Practitioners (Fees)  
• Anesthesia  
• Blood  
• Oxygen  
• Operation theatre  
• Surgical appliances;  
• Medicines , drugs &  consumables;  
• Diagnostic procedures.  If as per any or all of the Medical references herein 
below containing guidelines and protocols for 
Evidence Based Medicines, the Hospitalisation for 
treatment under claim is not necessary or the stay 
at the  hospital is found unduly long:   
 
 Medical text books,  
 Standard treatment guidelines as stated in 
clinical establishment act of Government of 
India,  
 World Health Organisation (WHO) 
protocols,  
 Published guidelines by healthcare 
providers,  
 Guidelines set by medical societies like 
cardiological society of India, neurological 
society of India etc . 
 
 b. Pre-Hospitalization Medical E xpenses for  
consultations, investigations and medicines 
incurred upto 60 days before the date of 
admission to the Hospital  (Inpa tient or Day  
Care or Domiciliary treatment ) 
c. Post -Hospitalization Medical E xpenses for 
consultations, investigations and 
medicines incurred upto 90 days after 
discharge from Hospitalisation  (Inpatient 
or Day Care or Domiciliary treatment) . 1. Claims which have  NOT been admitted under 1a) , 1d) 
and 1e)  
2. Expenses not related to the admission and not 
incidental to the treatment for which the admission 
has taken place  
 d. Day Care Procedures  
Medical treatment or surgical procedure 
which is undertaken under general or local 
anaesthesia, which require admission in a 1. Treatment that can be and is usually taken on an Out-
Patien t   basis is not covered  
2. Treatment a NOT taken at a Hospital  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  10 | P a g e                     Hospital/Day Care Centre for stay less than 
24 hours. Treatment normally taken on out -
patient basis is not included in the scope of 
this definition.  
 e. Domiciliary Treatment  
Medical treatment for an  
Illness/disease/injury which in the normal 
course would require care and treatment at a 
Hospital but is actually taken while confined 
at home und er any of the following 
circumstances:  
1. The condition of the Patient  is such that 
he/she is not in a condition to be removed 
to a Hospital or,  
2. The Patient takes treatment at home on 
account of non availability of room in a 
Hospital.  
Pre and Post Hospital isation expenses for 
consultations, investigations and medicines 
incurred upto 60 days before hospitalisation 
and 90 days after hospitalization respectively 
will be covered in case of domiciliary 
treatment.  1. Treatment of less than 3 days  (Coverage will be 
provided for expenses incurred in first three days 
only if treatment period is greater than 3 days)  
 
 f. Organ Donor:  
Medical and surgical expenses  of the 
organ donor for harvesting the organ  
where an Insured Person is the recipient . 
 
IMPORTANT: Expenses inc urred by an 
insured person while donating an organ is 
NOT covered.  1. Claim s which have NOT been admitted under 1a)  for 
insured member . 
2. Admission not compli ant under the Transplantation 
of Human Organs Act, 1994 (as amended).  
3. The organ donor’s Pre and Post -Hospitalisation 
expenses.  
 g. Ambulance:  
Expenses incurred on a  transportation of 
Insured Person to a Hospital for 
treatment in case of an emergency , 
subject to Rs. 2000 per Hospitalisation.  1. Claim s which have NOT been admitted under 1a)  and 
1d) 
2. Healthcare or ambulance service provider not 
registered with road traffic authority.  
 h. Ayush Benefit  
Expenses incurred on treatment taken 
under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and 
Homeopathy in a government hospital or 
in any institute recognized by government 
and/or accredited by Quality Council of 
India/National Accreditation Board on 
Health   subject to amounts specified in 
the Schedule of Benefits  1. Claims which have not been admitted under 1a)  
2. Hospitalisation for evaluation, Investigation only  
3. Treatment availed outside India  
4. Treatment at a healthcare facility which is NOT a 
Hospital.  
 i. Daily Cash for choosing shared 
Accommodation   
 Daily cash amount will be payable per day  
as mentioned in schedule of Benefits if 
the Insured Person is Hospitalised in 
Shared Accommodation in a Network 
Hospital for each continuous and 
completed period of 24 hours if the 
Hospitalisation exceeds 48 hours.  1. Daily Cash Benefit for time spent by the Insured 
Person in an intensive care unit  
2. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 
1a). 
 
2)  Additional Be nefits: The following benefits are available to all Insured Persons during the Policy Period. 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  11 | P a g e                     Any claims made under these benefits will be subject to In -patient Sum Insured and will impact eligibility 
for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup These benefit s are applicable based on the plan variant 
selected, as mentioned in the schedule of benefits.  
 
 a. Daily Cash for Accompanying an Insured 
Child  
 If the Insured Person Hospitalised is a 
child Aged 12 years or less,  daily cash 
amount will be payable as menti oned in 
schedule of Benefits for 1 accompanying 
adult for each complete period of 24 
hours if Hospitalisation exceeds 72 
hours.  1. Daily Cash Benefit for days of admission and 
discharge  
Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a).  
 b. Newborn baby  
Medical Ex penses for any medically 
necessary treatment described at 1)a) 
while the Insured Person (the Newborn 
baby) is Hospitalised during the Policy 
Period as an inpatient provided a   
proposal form is submitted  for the 
insurance of the newborn baby within 90  
days after the birth, and We have 
accepted the same and received the 
premium sought.  
Under this benefit, Coverage for 
newborn baby will incept from the date, 
the premium has been received.  
 
 
The coverage is subject to the policy 
exclusions, terms and condit ions.  
 
This Benefit is applicable if Maternity 
benefit is opted and  We have accepted 
a maternity claim under this Policy . 
 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 3a) i.e. 
Maternity Expenses     
2. Claims other than those available in Section B-1, 
Section  C-1,2,3  
 c. Recovery Benefit  
Lumpsum amount will be payable as 
mentioned in schedule of Benefits if the 
Insured Person is Hospitalised as an 
inpatient beyond 10 consecutive and 
continuous days  
This benefit is payable only once per 
Illness/Accident per Poli cy Year.  1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a).  
 d. Emergency Air Ambulance Cover  
We will pay for ambulance 
transportation in an airplane or 
helicopter subject to maximum limit 
prescribed in d(i) , for emergency life 
threatening health conditions whi ch 
require immediate and rapid ambulance 
transportation to the  hospital/medical 
centre that ground transportation 
cannot provide subject to:  
• Necessary medical treatment not 1. Claims which have NOT be en admitted under 
Inpatient Treatment or Day Care Procedures.  
2. Expenses incurred in return transportation to the 
insured’s home by air ambulance is excluded.  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  12 | P a g e                     being available at the location where the 
Insured Person is situated at the time  of 
Emergency;  
• The Medical Evacuation been 
prescribed by a Medical Practitioner and 
is Medically Necessary;  
• The insured person is in India and 
the treatment is required in India only 
and not overseas in any condition 
whatsoever; and  
• The air ambulan ce provider being 
registered in India.  
  
 d(i)The amount payable in case of Air 
ambulance facility shall be either the 
actual expenses or Rs. 2.5 Lacs per 
hospitalization, whichever is lower; upto 
basic sum insured limit for a year  
3. Additional Benefit not related to Sum Insured: The following benefit is available to all Insure d Persons 
during the Policy Period. Any claims made under these benefits will not be subject to In -patient Sum Insured 
and will not impact eligibility for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup.  These benefits are applicable based 
on the plan variant select ed, as mentioned in the schedule of benefits.  
 
 a. Maternity Expenses   
i. Medical Expenses for a delivery 
(including caesarean section) as 
mentioned in schedule of Benefits 
while Hospitalised or the lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the 
Policy Peri od limited to 2 deliveries or 
terminations or either during the 
lifetime of the Insured Person  
ii. Medical Expenses for pre -natal and 
post -natal expenses per delivery or 
termination upto the amount stated in 
the Schedule of Benefits,  
iii. Medical Expenses incurred  for the 
medically necessary treatment of the 
new born baby upto the amount stated 
in the Schedule of Benefits unless the 
new born baby is covered under 2b), 
and  
iv. The Insured Person must have been an 
Insured Person under Our Policy for the 
period of time s pecified in the Schedule 
of Benefits.  1. Pre- and post -hospitalisation expenses under 1 -b) 
and 1 -c)  
2. Ectopic pregnancy under this benefit (although it 
shall be covered under 1a)  
3. Claim for Dependents other than Insured Person’s 
spouse under this Policy.  
 
  
 
 
4.  Critical Illness  (Optional benefit)  
Any claims made under this benefit will not be subject to In -patient Sum Insured and will not impact eligibility 
for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup.  This benefit is optional and effective only if mentioned in th e 
Schedule.  
4 a. Critical Illness  (Optional benefit)  
We will pay the Critical Illness Sum 1. The Insured Person is first diagnosed as sufferi ng 
from a Critical Illness within 90 days of the 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  13 | P a g e                     Insured as a lump sum in addition to Our 
payment under 1)a), provided that:  
 
i. The Insured Person is first diagnosed as 
suffering from a Critical Illness during 
the Polic y Period, and  
ii. The Insured Person survives for at least 
30 days following such diagnosis.  
.  
iii.  “Critical Illness” includes Cancer, Open 
Chest CABG, First Heart Attack, Kidney 
Failure, Major Organ/Bone Marrow 
Transplant, Multiple Sclerosis, 
Permanent Paralysi s of Limbs and 
Stroke.  
Note: Critical Illness (Optional benefit)  
is always provided on an individual Sum 
Insured basis irrespective of whether 
policy is issued on a n individual or 
floater sum inured basis.  
 
 commencement of the Policy Period and the Insured 
Person has not previously been insured continuously 
and without interruption under an Easy Health Policy.  
2. The Insured Person has already made a claim for the  
same Critical Illness.  
3. A claim for this benefit has already been made 3 
times under this Policy or any other Easy Health 
policy issued by Us.  
 
 
 
 
5.  Renewal Benefits:  
 
5.1. Cumulative Bonus  
a) A 10% cumulative bonus will be applied on the Sum Insured for ne xt policy year  under the Policy after 
every CLAIM FREE Policy Year, provided that  the Policy is renewed with Us and without a break. The maximum 
cumulative bonus shall not exceed 100% of the Sum Insured in any Policy Year.  
 
b) In relation to a Family Floate r, the cumulative bonus so applied will only be available in respect of 
claims made by those Insured Persons who were Insured Persons in the claim free Policy Year and continue to be 
Insured Persons in the subsequent Policy Year.  
 
c) If a cumulative bonus ha s been applied and a claim is made, then in the subsequent Policy Year We will 
automatically decrease the cumulative bonus by 10% of the Sum Insured in that following Policy Year. There will 
be no impact on the Inpatient Sum Insured, only the accrued cumul ative bonus will be decreased.  
 
d) If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on individual basis and thus have accumulated 
the no claim bonus for each member in the expiring policy, and such expiring policy is renewed with Us on a 
Family Float er basis, then the no claim bonus to be carried forward for credit in the Policy would be the least no 
claim bonus amongst all the Insured Persons.   
 
e) Portability/migration  benefit will be offered to the extent of sum of previous sum insured and accrued 
cumulative bonus (if opted for), portability/migration  benefit shall not apply to any other additional increased 
sum insured.  
 
f) In policies with a two year Policy Period, the application of above guidelines of Cumulative Bonus shall 
be post completion of each  policy year.  
 
5.2. Stay Active  
 
We will offer a discount at each renewal if the insured member achieves the average step count target 
on the mobile application provided by Us in the specified time interval (calculated from the policy risk 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  14 | P a g e                     start date) as p er the grid below.  In an individual policy, the average step count would be calculated per 
adult member and in a floater policy it would be an average of all adult members covered. Dependent 
children covered either in individual or floater plan will not b e considered for calculation of average 
steps.  
 
This discount will be accrued at defined time intervals as given in table below. The discount will be 
cumulated and offered as discount on the renewal premium.  
 
In individual policies the discount percentage (%) would be applied on premium applicable per insured 
member (Dependent Children are not eligible for this stay active discount in an individual policy) and in a 
floater policy it would be applied on premium applicable on policy.  
The discount grid would be as per the table below:  
 
1 Year Policy  
 
 Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date)  
Average Step 
Target  Risk start date or date 
of download of mobile 
application -90 days  91-180 days  181-270 days  271-300 
days  Maximum Discount 
at the end of the year  
5000 or below  0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
5001 to 8000  0.5%  0.5%  0.5%  0.5%   2% 
8001 to 10000  1.25%  1.25%  1.25%  1.25%   5% 
Above 10000   2%  2% 2% 2% 8% 
 
2 Year Policy  
 
 Time Interval ((calculated from policy risk start date)  
  
Average 
Step 
target  Risk star t 
date or 
date of 
download 
of mobile 
application 
-90 days  91-180 
days  181-270 
days  271-360 
days  361-450 
days  451-540 
days  541-630 
days  631-660 
days  Maximum 
Discount 
at the 
end of 2 
years  
5000 or 
below  0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
5001 to 
8000  0.25%  0.25%  0.25%  0.25%  0.25%  0.25%  0.25%  0.25%  2% 
8001 to 
10000  0.625%  0.625%  0.625%  0.625%  0.625%  0.625%  0.625%  0.625%  5% 
Above 
10000  1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 8% 
 
   
 
 
The mobile app must be downloaded within 30 days of the policy risk start date to avail this 
bene fit.  The average step count completed by an Insured member would be tracked on this 
mobile application.  
 
We reserve the right to remove or reduce any count of steps if found to be achieved in unfair 
manner by manipulation.    
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  15 | P a g e                     Illustration  
 
Policy start d ate 1st Jan 2016  
Policy Tenure  1 year  
 
Time Interval  
  Risk start date or 
date of download of 
mobile application -
90 days  91 days -180 days  181 days -270 days  271- 300 days  
average steps taken in 
the defined time period  8500  10000  5001  7500  
discount %ap plicable   1.25%   1.25%  0.5%  0.5%  
 
Total discount a pplicable on renewal premium = 3.5 % 
 
5.3. Preventive Health Check -up 
a) If You have maintained an Easy Health Policy with Us for the period of time mentioned in the 
Schedule of Benefits without any break, the n at the end of each block of continuous years (as 
mentioned in the Schedule of benefits)  We will pay upto the percentage (mentioned in the 
Schedule of Benefits) of the Sum Insured for this Policy Year or the subsequent Policy Years 
(whichever is lower) to wards the cost of a preventive health check -up for those Insured Persons 
who were insured for the number of previous Policy Years mentioned in the Schedule.  
 Note:  If member  has changed the plan in subsequent year and in the new plan the waiting 
period is less than previous plan then waiting period mentioned in the current plan would be 
applicable.  
 
Plan  Standard  Exclusive  
Easy Health Individual  Upto 1% of Sum Insured per 
Insured Person upto Rs.5000, only 
once at the end of a block of every 
continuous four  claim free years.  Upto 1% of Sum Insured subject to a 
Maximum of Rs.5,000 per Insured Person, 
only once at the end of a block of every 
continuous three policy years  
 
Easy Health Family  Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy 
upto Rs.5000, only once at the end 
of a block of every continuous four 
claim free years  
 Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy subject 
to a Maximum of Rs. 5,000 per Policy, only 
once at the end of a block of every 
continuous three policy years  
 
b) In case of family floater  in Standard Variant , if any of the members have made a claim under 
this Policy, the health check -up benefit will not be offered to the whole family.  
c) We will consider complete policy years for the eligibility of this benefit.  
 
 
Preventive Health Check -up means a package of medi cal test(s) undertaken for general assessment of 
health status, it does not include any diagnostic or investigative medical tests for evaluation of illness or a 
disease.  
 
Section C. Exclusions & Waiting Period  
 
1. Standard Waiting Period  
All Illnesses and t reatments shall be covered subject to the waiting periods specified below:  
 
i. 30-day waiting period  – Code – Excl03  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  16 | P a g e                     a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arisin g due to an accident, provided 
the same are covered.  
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the insured person has continuous coverage for 
more than twelve months.  
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in th e 
event of granting higher sum insured subsequently.   
 
ii. Specified disease/procedure waiting period  – Code – Excl02  
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuou s coverage after the date of inception 
of the first policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an 
accident or underlying cause is cancer(s).  
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to th e extent of 
sum insured increase.  
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre -
existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.  
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply ev en if contracted after the policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion.  
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability/migration  stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period  for the 
same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.  
f) List of specific diseases/procedures: - 
 
Sl. 
No. Organ / Organ 
System  Illness /Diagnosis (irrespective of 
treatments medical or surgical)  Surgeries / procedure (irrespective of 
any illness / dia gnosis other than 
cancers)  
a.  Ear, Nose,  Throat 
(ENT)  Sinusitis  
 Rhinitis  
 Tonsillitis  
 
 
  Adenoidectomy  
 Mastoidectomy  
 Tonsillectomy  
 Tympanoplasty  
 Surgery  for nasal septum deviation  
  Nasal concha resection   
 Nasal polypectomy  
 Surgery for Turbinate hypertrophy  
 
b.  Gynaecological   Cysts,  polyps including 
breast lumps  
 Polycystic ovarian 
disease  
 Fibroids (fibromyoma)  Hysterectomy  
 
c.  Orthopaedic   Non infective arthritis  
 Gout and Rheumatism  
 Osteoarthritis and 
Osteoporosis   Surgery for prolapsed inter vertebral 
disk 
 Joint replacement  surgeries  
d.  Gastrointestinal   Calculus diseases of 
gall bladder including 
Cholecystitis  
 Pancreatitis  
 Fissure/fistula in anus, 
hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus  
 Ulcer and erosion of 
stomach and duodenum  
 Gastro Esophageal  Cholecystectomy  
 Surgery of hernia  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  17 | P a g e                     Reflux Disorder (GERD)  
 All forms of cirrhosis  
(Please Note: All forms of 
cirrhosis due to alcohol will be 
excluded)  
 Perineal Abscesses  
 Perianal  Abscesses  
e.  Urogenital   Calculus diseases of 
Urogenital system Example: 
Kidney stone, Urinary bladder 
stone. 
 Benign Hyperplasia of 
prostate   Surgery on prostate  
 Surgery for Hydrocele / 
Rectocele  
f.  Eye  Cataract  
  NIL 
g.  Others   NIL  Surgery of varicose veins and 
varicose ulcers  
h.  General  
( Applicable to all 
organ 
systems/organs/
disciplines  
whether or not 
described  above)   Internal tumours , 
cysts, nodules, polyps, skin 
tumours    NIL 
  
 
 
iii. Pre-Existing Diseases – Code – Excl01  
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre -existing disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months of  continuous coverage after 
the date of inception of the first policy with insurer.  
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
sum insured increase.  
c) If the insured person is continuously covered without any brea k as defined under the 
portability/migration  norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then 
waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.  
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre -existing disease is 
subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by insurer.  
 
 
2. Standard General exclusions  
 
We will not pay for any claim  which is caused by, arising from or attributable to : 
Non Medical Exclusions  
 1) Breach of law : Code – Excl10  
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any 
Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law 
with criminal intent.  
2) Hazardous or Adventure sports: Code – Excl09  
Expenses related to any treatment nece ssitated due to participation 
as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not 
limited to, para -jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, 
motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, 
deep -sea diving.  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  18 | P a g e                     Medical Exclusions  3) Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive 
condition and consequences thereof. Code – Excl12  
4) Obesity/ Weight Control: Code – Excl06  
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not 
fulfil all the  below conditions:  
i. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor  
ii. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by 
clinical protocols  
iii. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and  
iv. Body Mass Index (BMI);  
a) greater than or equal to 40 or  
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the 
following severe co -morbidities following failure of less 
invasive methods of weight loss:  
i. Obesity -related cardiomyopathy  
ii. Coronary heart disease  
iii. Severe Sleep Apnoea  
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes  
5) Expe nses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to 
refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres: Code – Excl15  
6) Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: Code - Excl08  
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change 
appearance unless for reco nstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) 
or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a 
direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be 
considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending 
Medical Practi tioner.  
7) Change -of-Gender treatments: Code – Excl07  
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, 
to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex.  
8) Unproven Treatments:  
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, servic es and supplies 
for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are 
treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical 
documentation to support their effectiveness. Code – Excl16  
9) Investigation & Evaluation: Code – Excl04  
a) Expenses  related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and 
evaluation purposes only are excluded.  
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental 
to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded.  
10) Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care: Code – Excl05  
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest 
and not for receiving treatment. This also includes:  
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for 
personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as 
bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non -skilled persons.  
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address 
physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.  
11) Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure c linics, spas 
or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing 
home attached to such establishments or where admission is 
arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. Code – Excl13  
12) Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased  
without prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  19 | P a g e                     and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioner 
as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. Code – Excl14  
13) Maternity( except to the extent provided for und er Section 
B.1.3.a)):Code – Excl18  
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including 
complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during 
hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;  
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accide nt) and 
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period.  
14) Sterility and Infertility: Code – Excl17  
Expenses related to  sterility and infertility. This includes:  
i. Any type of contraception, sterilization  
ii. Assisted Reproduction services includ ing artificial insemination 
and advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, 
ICSI 
iii. Gestational Surrogacy  
iv. Reversal of sterilization  
15) Excluded Providers: Code – Excl11  
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any 
Medical Practit ioner or any other provider specifically excluded by 
the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the 
policyholders are not admissible.  However, in case of life 
threatening situations or following an accident, expenses up to the 
stage of stabili zation are payable but not the complete claim.  
 
3. Specific Exclusions  
Non Medical Exclusions  
 1) Treatment arising from or consequent upon w ar or any act of 
war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, (whether war be declared 
or not  or caused during service in the a rmed forces of any 
country ), civil war, public defence, rebellion, revolution, 
insurrection, military or usurped acts, nuclear 
weapons/materials, chemical and biological weapons, 
radiation of any kind.  
2) Intentional self injury or attempted suicide while san e or 
insane.  
3) Any Insured Person’s participation or involvement in naval, 
military or air force operation.  
 
Medical Exclusions  4) Prosthetic and other devices which are self -detachable/removable 
without surgery involving anaesthesia  
5) Treatment availed outside India.  
6) Treatment  at a healthcare facility that is not a Hospital  
7) Circumcisions  (unless necessitated by Illness or injury and forming 
part of treatment)  
8) Non allopathic treatment  except to the extent provided for under 
Section B. 1.1.h). 
9) Conditions for which  treatment could have been done on an 
outpatient  basis without any Hospitalization . 
10) Preventive care, vaccination including inoculation and 
immunisations (except in case of post -bite treatment)  
11) Provision or fitting of hearing aids, spectacles or contact le nses 
including optometric therapy, any treatment and associated 
expenses for alopecia, baldness, wigs, or toupees, medical supplies 
including elastic stockings, diabetic test strips  
12)  Sleep  apnoea.  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  20 | P a g e                     13) Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies  
14) Expenses   incurred by the insured on organ donation  
15) Treatment and supplies for analysis and adjustments of spinal 
subluxation, diagnosis and treatment by manipulation of the skeletal 
structure; muscle stimulation by any means except treatment of 
fractures (excludi ng hairline fractures) and dislocations of the 
mandible and extremities . 
16) Dental treatment and surgery of any kind, unless requiring 
Hospitalisation   
17) Any non medical expenses mentioned in List 1 of Annexure  I  
18) Treatment rendered by a Medical Practitioner wh ich is outside 
his discipline or the discipline for which he is licensed . 
19) Treatments rendered by a Medical Practitioner who is a 
member of the Insured Person’s family or stays with him, however 
proven material costs are eligible for reimbursement in accord ance 
with the applicable cover.  
20) Any treatment or part of a treatment that is not of a 
reasonable charge and not Medically Necessary.  
21) Drugs or treatments which are not supported by a 
prescription.  
22) Any specific time  bound or lifetime exclusion(s) applied by  Us 
and specified in the Schedule  and accepted by the insured . 
23) Admission for administration of Intra -articular or Intra -lesional 
injections, Supplementary medications like Zolendronic ac id (Trade 
name Zometa, Reclast, etc.) or IV immunoglobulin infusion  
 
 
 
Section D. General Conditions  
 
1. Standard General Conditions  
 
a. Condition s Precedent to admissibility of Liability  
The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company 
to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the Policy.  
 
 
b. Claims  Settlement (Provision for Penal Interest)  
i) The Company  shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the 
date of receipt of last necessary document.  
ii) In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company s hall be liable to pay interest 
to the Policyholder  from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of 
payment of claim at a rate 2% above the Bank Rate . 
iii) However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of 
the Company , it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case 
not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document . In such cases, 
the Company  shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date  of receipt of last 
necessary document.  
iv) In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to 
the Policyholder  at a rate 2% above the Bank Rate  from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document to the date of payment of claim.  
v) We shall  be under no obligation to make any payment under  this Policy unless We have 
received all premium payments in full in time and all payments have been realised and We 
have been provided with the documentation and information We  has request ed to 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  21 | P a g e                     establish the circumstances of the claim, its quantum or Our liability for it, and unless the 
Insured Person has complied with his obligations under this Policy.  
  
vi) We will only make payment to You under this Policy. Receipt of payment by You shall be  
considered as a complete discharge of Our liability against any claim under this Policy. In the 
event of Your death, We will make payment to the Nominee (as named in the Schedule).  
vii) The assignment of benefits of the policy shall be subject to applicable la w.  
 
viii) Cashless service: If any treatment, consultation or procedure for which a claim may be 
made is to be taken at a Network Hospital, then We will provide a cashless service by 
making payment to the extent of Our liability direct to the Network Hospital a s long as We 
are given notice that the Insured Person wishes to take advantage of a cashless service 
accompanied by full particulars at least 48 hours before any planned treatment or 
Hospitalisation or within 24 hours after the treatment or Hospitalisation  in the case of an 
emergency.  
 
 
ix) Healthcare Advisory Benefit: We may suggest alternate Network Provider in specific cases 
of surgical or medical treatment, should the Insured member accept and utilize one of the 
alternatives suggested he would be eligible f or a lump sum benefit of Rs 5000.  
Please note: The acceptance of our recommendation is not obligatory on the Insured 
member and We are not liable for any outcome of the treatment conducted at the network 
centre.  
 
c. Fraud  
If any claim made by the Insured Per son, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, 
or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are 
used by the Insured Person  or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this 
Policy , all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.  
 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who have made that particular  claim , 
who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the Insurer . 
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed 
by the Insured Person  or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other pa rty acting on behalf of 
the Insured Person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an 
insurance policy:  
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured 
Person  does not believe to be true;  
b) the active c oncealment of  a fact by the Insured Person  having knowledge or 
belief of the fact;  
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and  
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent  
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy  benefits on the ground of 
Fraud, if the Insured Person  / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best 
of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such 
misstatement of or suppression of mate rial fact are within the knowledge of the Insurer .  
 
d. Multiple Policies  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  22 | P a g e                     i. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person  during a period from one or more 
insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person  shall have the right to require a 
settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the Insurer  
chosen by the Insured Person  shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within 
the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy . 
ii. Insured Person  having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this 
Policy  for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the Sum Insured  is 
not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim s ubject to the terms and 
conditions of this  Policy . 
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured  under a single Policy , the Insured Person  
shall have the right to choose Insurer  from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.  
iv. Where an Insured Per son has policies from more than one Insurer  to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the Insured Person  shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy.  
 
e. Renewal of Policy  
The policy shall or dinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the 
insured person.  
 
i. The Company shall endeavor  to give notice for Renewal . However, the Company is not 
under obligation to give any notice for Renewal . 
ii. Renewal  shall not be denied on t he ground that the Insured Person  had made a claim or 
claims in the preceding policy years.  
iii. Request for Renewal  along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before 
the end of the policy period.  
iv. At the end of the policy period, the Policy  shall terminate and can be renewed within the 
Grace Period  to maintain continuity of benefits without Break in Policy . Coverage is not 
available during the Grace Period . 
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience.  
 
f. Cancellation   
i) The Policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days’ written notice and in such an 
event, the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed 
below.  
 
 
1 Year Policy Period  2 Year Policy Period  
Length of time Policy in 
force % of premium 
refunded  Length of time Policy in 
force  % of premium 
refunded  
Upto 1 Month  75.00%  Upto 1 Month  87.50%  
Upto 3 Months  50.00%  Upto 3 Months  75.00%  
Upto 6 Months  25.00%  Upto 6 Months  62.50%  
Exceeding 6 Months  Nil Upto 12 Months  48.00%  
  Upto 15 Months  25.00%  
  Upto 18 Months  12.00%  
  Exceeding 18 Months  Nil 
 
For Policies  where premium is paid by instalment, the following additional conditions will be applicable:  
i. Where yearly payment option is in force under the Policy , cancellation grid a s per 1 -Year Tenure 
policies will be applicable.  
ii. For all other payment options, 50% of current instalment premium will be refunded when the 
current period elapsed is less than 6 months from the commencement of the Policy Year . For 
instalment after 6 months , no refund will be payable.  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  23 | P a g e                     iii. In case of admissible claim under the Policy, future instalment for the current Policy Year  will 
be adjusted in the claim amount and no refund of any premium will be applicable during the 
Policy Year . 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be 
made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or 
any benefit has been availed by the Insured Person  under the Policy . 
 
ii) The Company may cancel the policy a t any time on grounds of misrepresentation non -
disclosure of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days’ written notice . 
There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, 
non-disclosure of material fact s or fraud.  
 
g. Free Look Period  
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on 
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the Policy.  
 
The Insured Person  shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days fro m date of receipt of the 
policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not 
acceptable.  
 
If the Insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled 
to 
 
i. a refund of the premi um paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the Insured Person  and the stamp duty charges or  
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the Policy is exercised by 
the Insured Person, a deduction towards  the proportionate risk premium for period of cover 
or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period.  
 
h. Disclosure of Information  
 
The policy shall be void a nd all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis description or non -disclosure of any material fact by the 
policyholder.  
 
i. Complete Discharge  
 
Any payment to the Policyholder , Insured Person  or his/ her no minees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the Hospital , as the case may be, for any benefit under the 
Policy  shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company  to the extent of that 
amount for the particular claim.  
 
j. Moratori um Period  
 
After completion of eight continuous years under the policy, no look back to be applied. This period 
of eight years is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums 
insured of the first policy and subsequently comp letion of 8 continuous years would be applicable 
from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of 
Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and 
permanent exclusions spe cified in the policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all 
limits, sub limits, co -payments, deductibles as per the policy contract  
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  24 | P a g e                     k. Portability  
 
The Insured Person  will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by  applying to s uch 
Insurer  to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days 
before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related 
to Portability . If such person is presently covered a nd has been continuously covered without 
any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the 
proposed Insured Person  will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI 
guidelines on portability.  
 
For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link  
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  
 
l. Migration   
 The Insured Person  will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance 
products/plans offered by the Company by applying for Migration  of the policyatleast30 days 
before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration . If such perso n is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance 
product/plan offered by the Company, the Insured Person  will get the accrued continuity 
benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration.  
 
 For Detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link  
 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  
 
m. Possibili ty of Revision of terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates  
 
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy 
including the premium rates. The Insured Person  shall be notified three months before the 
changes are effec ted. 
 
n. Withdrawal of Policy  
 
i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
Insured Person  about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.  
 
ii. Insured Person  will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product 
available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits 
such as Cumulative Bonus , waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the 
policy has been maintained without a break.  
 
o. Nomination:  
The Policyholder  is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the Policy in the event of death of the Policyholder . Any change of nomination 
shall be communicated to the Company in writing and su ch change shall be effective only when an 
endorsement on the Policy is made. In the event of death of the Policyholder , the Company will pay the 
nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is 
no subsi sting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the Policyholder  whose discharge 
shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the Policy . 
p.  Premium Payment in Instalments  
 
If the Insured Person  has opted for payment of P remium on an installment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule , the following Conditions shall apply 
(notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy ): 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  25 | P a g e                     i. Grace Period  as mentioned in the table below wou ld be given to pay the installment premium due 
for the Policy  
 
Options  Instalment Premium Option  Grace Period applicable  
Option 1  Multi -Year / Yearly  30 days  
Option 2  Half Yearly  30 days  
Option 3  Quarterly  30 days  
Option 4  Monthly  15 Days  
 
ii. During such  Grace Period , coverage will not be available from the due date of installment premium 
till the date of receipt of premium by Company  
iii. The Insured Person  will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, 
“Specific Waiting Periods”  in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated Grace Period  
iv. No interest will be charged If the installment premium is not paid on due date  
v. In case of installment premium due not received within the Grace Period , the Policy  will get 
cancelled  
vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium installments shall immediately become due and 
payable  
vii. The Company  has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim 
amount due under the Policy . 
 
 Instalment premium payment through  Auto Debit/ECS Facility  
 
i. If Option of Premium payment by instalment is opted through auto Debit/ECS facility, Electronic 
Clearing Service (ECS) Mandate form needs to be completely filled & signed by the Insured Person . 
ii. The Premium amount which would be au to debited & frequency of instalment should be duly filled 
in the ECS Mandate form.  
iii. New ECS Mandate Form is required to be filled in case of any change in the Premium due to change 
of Sum Insured / age / plan /coverages/revision in premium.  
iv. The Company sho uld be informed at least 15 days prior to the due date of instalment premium if the 
Insured Person wishes to discontinue the ECS facility.  
v. Non -payment of premium on due date as opted by the Insured Person  in the mandate form subject 
to an additional 15 day s of relaxation period will lead to termination of the Policy . 
 
q. Redressal of Grievance  
 
In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the Company through:  
 Website: www.hdfcergo.com  
 Toll free: 022 6234 6234 / 0120 6234 6234  
 Contact Details for Sen ior Citizen: 022 6234 6234 / 0120 6234 6234  
 E-mail: care@hdfcergo.com  
Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company’s branches with the details 
of grievance.  
If Insured Person is not sati sfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, 
Insured Person may contact the grievance officerat cgo@hdfcergo.com  
 
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link: https://www.hdfcergo.com/customer -
voice/grievances  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  26 | P a g e                     Contact Points  First Contact Point  Escalation level 1  Escalation level 2  
Contact us at  https://www.hdfcergo.co
m/customer -
care/grievances  
Call - : 022 6234 6234 / 
0120 6234 6234  
 https://www.hdfcergo.com
/customer -
care/grievances /escalation 
level 1  
Call - : 022 6234 6234 / 
0120 6234 6234  
 https://www.hdfcergo.com/custo
mer-care/grievances/escalation 
level 2  
Call - : 022 6234 6234 / 0 120 
6234 6234  
 
Contact Point for 
Senior Citizen  https://www.hdfcergo.com/ 
customer -care/grievances 
Call - : 022 – 6242 – 6226  
Email - 
seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com  https://www.hdfcergo.com/ 
customer -care/grievances 
Call - : 022 – 6242 – 6226  
Email - 
seniorc itizen@hdfcergo.com   https://www.hdfcergo.com/ 
customer -care/grievances Call - : 
022 – 6242 – 6226  
Email - 
seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com   
Write to us at  care@hdfcergo.com  grievance@hdfcergo.com  cgo@hdfcergo.com  
Visit us   Grievance cell of any of our 
Branch office  The Grievance Cell,  
HDFC ERGO General   
Insurance Company Ltd.,  
D-301, 3rd Floor,  
Eastern Business District 
(Magnet Mall) , 
LBS Marg, Bhandup (West) 
Mumbai -400078  The Chief Grievance Officer, 
Registered &  
Corporate Office: HDFC House, 1st 
Floor,  
165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. 
T. Parekh  
Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 
400020  
 
If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods , the Insured 
Person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for 
redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. Grievance may also be lodged at 
IRDAI Integrated Grie vance Management System - https://igms.irda.gov.in/ . 
 
 
2. Specific General Terms & Conditions  
 
a. Geography  
This Policy only covers medical treatment taken within India. All payments under this Policy will 
only be made i n Indian Rupees within India.  
The premium will be computed basis the city of residence provided by the insured person in the 
application form. The premium that would be applicable zone wise and the cities defined in 
each zone are as under:  
 Tier 1 : Delhi, NCR, Mumbai, Thane, Mumbai Suburban and Navi Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad 
& Vadodara  
 Tier 2 : Rest of India - All other cities  
 
The premium will be modified in case of mid -term address change involving migration from one 
zone to another and would be calculated  on pro -rata basis.  
 
b. Insured Person  
Only those persons named as Insured Persons in the Schedule shall be covered under this Policy. 
Any eligible person may be added during the Policy Period after his application has been accepted 
by Us and additional premi um has been received. Insurance cover for this person shall only 
commence once We have issued an endorsement confirming the addition of such person as an 
Insured Person.  
Any Insured Person in the policy has the option to migrate to similar indemnity healt h insurance 
policy available with us at the time of renewal subject to underwriting with continuity benefit of    
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  27 | P a g e                     waiver of waiting period. provided the policy has been maintained without a break as per 
portability/migration guidelines.  
 
 
If an Insured Pe rson dies, he will cease to be an Insured Person upon Us receiving all relevant 
particulars in this regard. We will return a rateable part of the premium received for such person IF 
AND ONLY IF there are no claims in respect of that Insured Person under th e Policy.  
 
 
c. Loadings & Discounts  
We may apply a risk loading on the premium payable (based upon the declarations made in the 
proposal form and the health status of the persons proposed for insurance). The maximum risk 
loading applicable for an individual s hall not exceed above 100% per diagnosis / medical condition 
and an overall risk loading of over 150% per person.   These loadings are applied from 
Commencement Date of the Policy including subsequent renewal(s) with Us or on the receipt of the 
request of i ncrease in Sum Insured (for the increased Sum Insured).  
 
We will inform You about the applicable risk loading through a counter offer letter. You need to 
revert to Us with consent and additional premium (if any), within 7 days of the receipt of such 
count er offer letter. In case, you neither accept the counter offer nor revert to Us within 7days, We 
shall cancel Your application and refund the premium paid within next 7 days.  
 
Please note that We will issue Policy only after getting Your consent  and addit ional premium (if 
any). Please visit our nearest branch to refer our underwriting guidelines if required.  
 
  
We will provide a Family Discount of 5% if 2 members are covered and 10% if 3 or more family 
members are covered under a single Easy Health Individu al Health Insurance Plan. An additional 
discount of 7.5% will be provided if insured person is paying two year premium, in advance as a 
single premium. These discounts shall be applicable at inception and renewal of the policy  
 
 
 
 
 
d. Notification of Claim   
 Treatment, Consultation or Procedure:  We must be notified:  
i. If any treatment for which a claim may be made is to 
be taken and that treatment requires 
Hospitalisation:  Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours 
prior to the Insured Person’s admissio n. 
ii.  If any treatment for which a claim may be made is 
to be taken and  that treatment  requires 
Hospitalisation in an Emergency:  Within 24 hours of the start of the Insured 
Person’s Hospitalisation.  
iii. For all benefits which are contingent on Our p rior 
acceptance of a claim under Section B-1)a):  Within 7 days of the Insured Person’s discharge 
post -hospitalisation.  
 
e. Cashless Service:  
 
 Treatment, Consultation 
or Procedure:  Treatment, 
Consultation or 
Procedure Taken 
at: Cashless Service 
is Available:  We must be given 
notice that the Insured 
Person wishes to take 
advantage of the 
cashless service 
accompanied by full 
particulars.  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  28 | P a g e                     i. If any planned treatment, 
consultation or 
procedure for which a 
claim may be made:  Network Hospital  We will provide 
cash less service 
by making 
payment to the 
extent of Our 
liability directly 
to the Network 
Hospital.  At least 48 hours before 
the planned treatment 
or hospitalisation.  
ii. If Any treatment, 
consultation or 
procedure for which a 
claim may be made taken 
in an E mergency:  Network Hospital  We will provide 
cashless service 
by making 
payment to the 
extent of Our 
liability directly 
to the Network 
Hospital.  Within 24 hours after 
the treatment or 
Hospitalisation.  
 
f. Supporting Documentation & Examination  
 
The Insured Pe rson or someone claiming on your behalf shall provide Us with any 
documentation, medical records and information We A may request to establish the 
circumstances of the claim, its quantum or Our liability for the claim within 15 days of the 
earlier of Our r equest or the Insured Person’s discharge from Hospitalisation or completion of 
treatment . The Company may accept claims where documents have been provided after a 
delayed interval only in special circumstances and for the reasons beyond the control of the 
insured.  Such documentation will include but is not limited to the following:  
 
i) Our claim form, duly completed and signed for on behalf of the Insured Person.  
ii) Original bills (including but not limited to pharmacy purchase bill, consultation bill, 
diagnostic  bill and any attachments thereto like receipts or prescriptions in support of any 
amount claimed which will then become Our property.  
iii) All reports and records, including but not limited to all medical reports, case histories/indoor 
case papers, investigati on reports, treatment papers, discharge summaries  
iv) A precise diagnosis of the treatment for which a claim is made.  
v) A detailed list of the individual medical services and treatments provided and a unit price for 
each.  
vi) Prescriptions that name the Insured Per son and in the case of drugs: the drugs prescribed, 
their price and a receipt for payment. Prescriptions must be submitted with the corresponding 
Medical Practitioner’s invoice  
vii) All pre and post investigation, treatment and follow up (consultation) records pertaining to the 
present ailment for which claim is being made  
viii) All investigation, treatment and follow up records pertaining to the past ailment(s) since their 
first diagnoses or detection  
ix) Treating doctors certificate regarding missing information in case  histories e.g. Circumstance of 
injury and Alcohol or drug influence at the time of accident  
x) Copy of settlement letter from other insurance company or TPA  
xi) Stickers and invoice of implants used during surgery  
xii) Copy of MLC (Medico legal case) records and FIR (First information report), in case of claims 
arising out of an accident  
xiii) Regulatory requirements as amended from time to time, currently mandatory NEFT (to enable 
direct credit of claim amount in bank account) and KYC (recent ID/Address proof and 
photograp h) requirements  
xiv) Legal heir certificate  
g. The Insured Person will have to undergo medical examination by Our authorised Medical 
Practitioner, as and when We may reasonably require, to obtain an independent opinion for the 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  29 | P a g e                     purpose of processing any claim. We w ill bear the cost towards performing such medical 
examination (at the specified location) of the Insured Person.  
h. Non Disclosure or Misrepresentation:  
i. If at the time of issuance of Policy or during continuation of the Policy, the information provided 
to Us  in the proposal form or otherwise, by You or the Insured Person or anyone acting on 
behalf of You or an Insured Person is found to be incorrect, incomplete, suppressed or not 
disclosed, wilfully or otherwise, the Policy shall be:  
 Cancelled ab initio from  the inception date or the renewal date (as the case may be), or 
the Policy may be modified by Us,  at our sole discretion, upon 15 day notice by 
sending an endorsement to Your address shown in the Schedule and  
 The claim under such Policy if any, shall be  rejected/repudiated forthwith.  
 
ii. We may also exercise any of the below listed options for the purpose of continuing the health 
insurance coverage in case of Non -Disclosure/Misrepresentation of Pre -existing diseases subject 
to your prior consent;  
 
a) Permanent ly exclude the disease/condition and continue with the Policy  
b) Incorporate additional waiting period of not exceeding 4 years for the said undisclosed 
disease or condition from the date the non -disclosed condition was detected and 
continue with the Policy.  
c)  Levy underwriting loading from the first year of issuance of policy or renewal, whichever 
is later.  
 
The above options will not prejudice the rights of the Company to invoke cancellation under 
clause i above.  
 
i. Endorsements  
This Policy constitutes the com plete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be changed by anyone 
(including an insurance agent or broker) except Us. Any change that We make will be evidenced by 
a written endorsement signed and stamped by Us.  
j. Change of Policyholder  
The Policyholder ma y be changed only at the time of renewal. The new policyholder must be a 
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family. Such change would be subject to Our 
acceptance and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy shall be treated as having 
been ren ewed without break.  
 
The Policyholder may be changed in case of his demise or him moving out of India during the 
Policy Period.  
 
k. Notices  
Any notice, direction or instruction under this Policy shall be in writing and if it is to:  
i) Any Insured Person, it woul d be sent to You at the address specified in Schedule / 
endorsement  
ii) Us, shall be delivered to Our address specified in the Schedule.  
iii) No insurance agents, brokers or other person/ entity is authorised to receive any notice on Our 
behalf.  
 
l. Dispute Resolutio n Clause  
Any and all disputes or differences under or in relation to this Policy shall be determined by the 
Indian Courts and subject to Indian law.  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  30 | P a g e                     Section E. Other  Terms & Conditions  
 
1. Claim Related Information  
For any claim related query, intimation of  claim and submission of claim related documents, You can 
contact HDFC ERGO  General Insurance Company Limited   through:  
 
Claim Intimation:  
 Customer Service No. 022 -62346234 / 0120 -62346234  
 
Email: healthclaims@hdfcergo.com  
 
 
Claim document submission at 
address:   
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co. Ltd.  
Stellar IT Park, Tower -1 
5th Floor, C - 25, Sector 62  
Noida – 0120 398 8360  
 
 
Additional Note: Please refer to the list of empanelled network centers on our website or the list 
provided in the welcome kit . 
 
2. List of Ombudsman  
 
Office Details  Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District)  
AHMEDABAD  - Shri Kuldip Singh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,  
Tilak Marg, Relief Road,  
Ahmedabad – 380 001.  
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/0 2/05/06  
Email:  bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in  Gujarat,  
Dadra & Nagar Haveli,  
Daman and Diu.  
BENGALURU  - Smt. Neerja Shah  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No . 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,  
JP Nagar, Ist Phase,  
Bengaluru – 560 078.  
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049  
Email:  bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in  Karnataka.  
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,  
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,  
Near New Market,  
Bhopal – 462 003.  
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202  
Fax: 0755 - 2769203  
Email:  bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in  Madhya Pradesh  
Chattisgarh.  
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra 
Panda  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Orissa.  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  31 | P a g e                     62, Forest park,  
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.  
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455  
Fax: 0674 - 2596429  
Email:  bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in  
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,  
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandi garh – 160 017.  
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468  
Fax: 0172 - 2708274  
Email:  bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in  Punjab,  
Haryana(excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, 
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh)  
Himachal Pradesh, U nion Territories of 
Jammu & Kashmir,  
Ladakh & Chandigarh.  
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet,  
CHENNAI – 600 018.  
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284  
Fax: 044 - 24333 664 
Email:  bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in  Tamil Nadu,  
Tamil Nadu  
PuducherryTown and  
Karaikal (which are part of Puducherry).  
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2/2 A, Univer sal Insurance Building,  
Asaf Ali Road,  
New Delhi – 110 002.  
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504  
Email:  bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in  Delhi &  
Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadu rgarh.  
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,  
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,  
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).  
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205  
Email:  bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in  Assam,  
Meghalaya,  
Manipur,  
Mizoram,  
Arunachal Pradesh,  
Nagaland and Tripura.  
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",  
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,  
A. C. Guard s, Lakdi -Ka-Pool,  
Hyderabad - 500 004.  
Tel.: 040 - 23312122  
Fax: 040 - 23376599  
Email:  bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in  Andhra Pradesh,  
Telangana,  
Yanam and  
part of Union Territory of Puducherry.  
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,  Rajasthan . 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  32 | P a g e                     Bhawani Singh Marg,  
Jaipur - 302 005.  
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363  
Email:  bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in  
 
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,  
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,  
Ernakulam - 682 015.  
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338  
Fax: 0484 - 2359336  
Email:  bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in  Kerala,  
Lakshadweep,  
Mahe -a part of Union Territory of 
Puducherry.  
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,  
4, C.R. Avenue,  
KOLKATA - 700 072.  
Tel.: 033 - 221243 39 / 22124340  
Fax : 033 - 22124341  
Email:  bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in  West Bengal,  
Sikkim,  
Andaman & Nicobar Islands.  
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar 
Srivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase -II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,  
Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331  
Fax: 0522 - 2231310  
Email:  bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in  Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi , 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, 
Ballia, Sidharathnagar.  
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
3rd Floor, Je evan Seva Annexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),  
Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960  
Fax: 022 - 26106052  
Email:  bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in  Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan Region  
excluding Navi Mumb ai & Thane.  
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Bhagwan Sahai Palace  
4th Floor, Main Road,  
Naya Bans, Sector 15,  
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,  
U.P-201301.  
Tel.: 0120 -2514252 / 2514253  State of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh:  
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, P ilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  33 | P a g e                     Email:  bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in  Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, 
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.  
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
1st Floor,Kalpana  Arcade Building,,  
Bazar Samiti Road,  
Bahadurpur,  
Patna 800 006.  
Tel.: 0612 -2680952  
Email:  bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in  Bihar,  
Jharkhand.  
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeev an Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,  
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,  
Pune – 411 030.  
Tel.: 020 -41312555  
Email:  bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in  Maharashtra,  
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane  
exclud ing Mumbai Metropolitan Region.  
 
 
This Policy is subject to regulation 1 2 of IRDAI (Protection of Policyholder’s Interests) Regulations 2017.  
 
 
Schedule of Benefits – Easy Health Individual   
 Standard  Exclusive  
Sum Insured per 
Insured Person 
per Policy  Year 
(Rs. in Lakh)  1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 
3.00, 4.00, 
5.00,7.5,10,15  3.00, 4.00, 
5.00  7.50,10.00  15.00,20.00,  
25.00, 50.00  
1 a) In -patient 
Treatment  Covered  Covered  
1 b) Pre -
hospitalization  Covered  Covered  
1 c) Post -
hospitalization  Covered  Covered  
1 d) Day Care 
Procedures  Covered  Covered  
1 e) Domiciliary 
Treatment  Covered  Covered  
1 f) Organ 
Donor  Covered  Covered  
1 g)) Emergency 
Ambulance  Upto Rs.2000 p er 
hospitalisation  Upto Rs.2000 p er hospitalisation  
1 h) Ayush 
Benefit  Upto Rs 20,000  Upto Rs 2 5,000   Upto Rs 
50,000  
1  i) Daily Cash 
for choosing 
Shared 
Accommodation  Rs.500 per day, 
Maximum Rs.3,000  Rs.500 per 
day,  
Maximum 
Rs.3,000  Rs.800 per day,  
Maximum 
Rs.4,800  Rs.1000 per 
day,  
Maximum 
Rs.6,000  
2 a) Daily Cash 
for Not Covered  Rs.300 per 
day,  Rs.500 per day,  
Maximum Rs.800 per 
day,  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  34 | P a g e                     accompanying 
an insured chil d Maximum 
Rs.9,000  Rs.15,000  Maximum 
Rs.24,000  
2 b) Newborn 
baby  Not Covered  Additional Benefit on payment of additional 
premium  
2 c) Recovery 
Benefit  Not Covered  Not Covered   
Rs 10,000  
2 d) Emergency 
Air Ambulance  Not covered  Not covered  Upto Rs.2.5 
Lacs per 
hospitalisation  
3 a) Maternity 
Expenses  
 Not Covered  Normal 
Delivery Rs. 
15,000*  
Caesarean 
Delivery Rs. 
25,000*  
(* Including 
Pre/Post Natal 
limit of 
Rs.1,500 and 
New Born 
limit  of 
Rs.2,000)  
[Waiting 
Period of 6 
years]  Normal Delivery 
Rs. 25,000*  
Caesarean 
Delivery Rs. 
40,000*  
(* Including 
Pre/Post Natal 
limit of Rs. 2,500 
and New Born 
limit of Rs.3,500)  
[Waiting Period 
of 6 years]   Normal 
Delivery Rs. 
30,000*  
Caesarean 
Delivery Rs. 
50,000*  
(* Including 
Pre/Post Natal 
limit of Rs. 
5,000 and 
New Born 
limit of 
Rs.5,000)  
[Waiting 
Period of 4 
Years]  
   
4  Critical Illness 
(Optional 
benefit)  Optional, if opted then 
the Critical Illness Sum 
Insured 50% or 100% of 
In-patient Sum Insure d 
subject to minimum of 
Rs 100,000 upto a 
maximum of Rs. 10 Lacs       Optional, if opted then the Critical 
Illness Sum Insured will be 50% or 
100% of In -patient Sum Insured   Optional, if 
opted then 
the Critical 
Illness Sum 
Insured will be 
50% or 100% 
of In-patient 
Sum Insured 
upto a 
maximum of 
Rs 10 Lacs  
5.1 . Cumulative 
Bonus  Additional 10% of Base Sum Insured on continuous renewal for each claim free 
year subject to maximum 100% of Base Sum Insured. Reduced by 10% of Base 
Sum Insured in event of a claim each year  
5.2. Stay Active  Upto 8% discount on renewal premium subject to insured member achieving 
the average number of steps in each time interval prescribed in the grid by 
either walking or running regularly to keep fit. Dependent children covered will  
not be considered for calculation of average steps.  
5.3. Health 
Checkup  Upto 1% of Sum Insured 
per Insured Person upto 
Rs.5000, only once at 
the end of a block of 
every continuous four 
claim free years.  Upto 1% of Sum Insured subject to a Maximum of 
Rs.5,000 per Insured Person, only once at the end 
of a block of every continuous three policy  years  
  
Benefits under 5 .1, 5.2, 5.3 are subject to pre -authorisation by HDFC ERGO General  Insurance 
Limited  
 
Schedule of Benefits – Easy Health Family  
 Standard  Exclusive   
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  35 | P a g e                     Sum Insured per 
Policy per Policy 
Year (Rs. in 
Lakh)  2.00, 3.00, 4.00, 
5.00,7.50,10.00,15.00  3.00, 4.00, 
5.00  7.50,10.00  15.00,20.00,  
25.00, 50.00  
1 a) In -patient 
Treatment  Covered  Covered  
1 b) Pre -
hospitalization  Covered  Covered  
1 c) Post -
hospitalization  Covered  Covered  
1 d) Day Care 
Procedures  Covered  Covered  
1 e) Domiciliary 
Treatment  Covered  Covered  
1 f) Organ 
Donor  Covered  Covered  
1 g)) Emergency 
Ambulance  Upto Rs.2000 p er 
hospitalisation  Upto Rs.2000 p er hospitalisation  
1 h) Ayush  
Benefit  Upto Rs 20,000  Upto Rs 25,000    Upto Rs 50,000  
1  i) Daily Cash 
for choosing 
Shared 
Accommodation  Rs.500 per day, 
Maximum Rs.3,000  Rs.500 per 
day,  
Maximum 
Rs.3,000  Rs.800 per 
day,  
Maximum 
Rs.4,800  Rs.1000 per day,  
Maximum Rs.6,000  
2 a) Daily Cas h 
for 
accompanying 
an insured child  Not Covered  Rs.300 per 
day,  
Maximum 
Rs.9,000  Rs.500 per 
day,  
Maximum 
Rs.15,000  Rs.800 per day,  
Maximum Rs.24,000  
2 b) Newborn 
baby  Not Covered  Additional Benefit on payment of additional premium  
2 c)  Recovery 
Benefit  Not Covered  Not Covered  Rs 10,000  
2 d) Emergency 
Air Ambulance  Not covered  Not covered  Upto Rs.2.5 Lacs per 
hospitalisation  
3 a) Maternity 
Expenses  
 Not Covered  Normal 
Delivery Rs. 
15,000*  
Caesarean 
Delivery Rs. 
25,000*  
(* Including 
Pre/Post 
Natal li mit of 
Rs.1,500 and 
New Born 
limit of 
Rs.2,000)  
[Waiting 
Period 4 
years]  Normal 
Delivery Rs. 
25,000*  
Caesarean 
Delivery Rs. 
40,000*  
(* Including 
Pre/Post 
Natal limit 
of Rs. 2,500 
and New 
Born limit of 
Rs.3,500)  
[Waiting 
Period 4 
years]    Normal Delivery Rs . 
30,000*  
Caesarean Delivery Rs. 
50,000*  
(* Including Pre/Post 
Natal limit of Rs. 5,000 
and New Born limit of 
Rs.5,000)  
[Waiting Period of 3 
Years]  
   
4  Critical Illness 
(Optional 
benefit)  Optional, if opted 
then the Critical 
Illness Sum Insured Optional, if opted then the 
Critical Illness Sum Insured  
will be 50% or 100% of In - Optional, if opted then 
the Critical Illness Sum 
Insured will be 50% or 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  36 | P a g e                     50% or 100% of In -
patient Sum Insured 
subject to minimum 
of Rs 100,000  upto a 
maximum of Rs 10 
Lacs      patient Sum Insured  100% of In -patient Sum 
Insured upto a maximum 
of Rs 10 Lacs  
5.1. Cumulative 
bonus  Additional 10% of Base Sum Insured on continuous renewal for each claim free 
year subject to maximum 100% of Base Sum Insured. Reduced by 10% of Base 
Sum  Insured in event of a claim eac h year . In relation to a Family Floater, the 
cumulative bonus so applied will only be available in respect of claims made by 
those Insured Persons who were Insured Persons in the claim free Policy Year 
and continue to be Ins ured Persons in the subsequent Policy Year.  
5.2. Stay Active  Upto 8% discount on renewal premium subject to insured member achieving the 
average number of steps in each time interval prescribed in the grid by either 
walking or running regularly to keep f it. In a floater policy it would be an average 
of all adult members covered. Dependent children covered will not be 
considered for calculation of average steps.  
5.3. Health 
Checkup  Upto 1% of Sum 
Insured per Policy 
upto Rs.5000, only 
once at the end of a 
block of every 
continuous four claim 
free years   
Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy subject to a 
Maximum of Rs. 5,000 per Insured Person, only once at 
the end of a block of every continuous three  policy 
years.  
Benefits under 5.1,5.2,5.3  are subject to pr e-authorisation by HDFC ERGO General  Insurance 
Limited  
 
 
Annexure I –  
List  I - Items for which coverage is not available in the policy  
 
S. 
No. Item  S. 
No. Item  
1 BABY FOOD  35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE 
HOSPITAL)  
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES  36 SPACER  
3 BEAUTY SERVICES  37 SPIROMETRE  
4 BELTS/ BRACES  38 NEBULIZER KIT  
5 BUDS  39 STEAM INHALER  
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK  40 ARMSLING  
7 CARRY BAGS  41 THERMOMETER  
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES  42 CERVICAL COLLAR  
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN 
PATIENT'S DIET  PROVIDED BY 
HOSPITAL)  43 SPLINT  
10 LEGGINGS  44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR  
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES  45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
12 MINERAL WATER  46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER  
13 SANITARY PAD  47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT  
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES  48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES  
15 GUEST SERVICES  49 AMBULANCE COLLAR  
16 CREPE BANDAGE  50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT  
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE  51 ABDOMINAL BINDER  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  37 | P a g e                      
 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges  
 18 EYELET COLLAR  52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING 
CHARGES  
19 SLINGS  53  SUGAR FREE TABLE TS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS 
MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES  54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE 
NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL 
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)  
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING 
CHARGE ALSO CHARGED  55 ECG ELECTRODES  
22 TELEVISION CHARGE S 56 GLOVES  
23 SURCHARGES  57 NEBULISATION KIT  
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES  58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED 
[DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC]  
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN 
THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED 
CHARGE)  59 KIDNEY TRAY  
26 BIRTH CERTIF ICATE  60 MASK  
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES  61 OUNCE GLASS  
28 COURIER CHARGES  62 OXYGEN MASK  
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES  63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE  64 PAN CAN  
31 MEDICAL RECORDS  65 TROLLY COVER  
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES  66 UROMETER, URINE JUG  
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  67 AMBULANCE  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES  68 VASOFIX SAFETY  
Sl 
No Item  
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)  
2 HAND WASH  
3 SHOE COVER  
4 CAPS  
5 CRADLE CHARGES  
6 COMB  
7 EAU -DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS  
8 FOOT COVER  
9 GOWN  
10 SLIPPERS  
11 TISSUE PAPER  
12 TOOTH PASTE  
13 TOOTH BRUSH  
14 BED PAN  
15 FACE MASK  
16 FLEXI MASK  
17 HAND HOLDER  
18 SPUTUM CUP  
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  38 | P a g e                      
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges  
 20 LUXURY TAX  
21 HVAC  
22 HOUSE KEEP ING CHARGES  
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES  
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25 CLEAN SHEET  
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET  
27 ADMISSION KIT  
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES  
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES  
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES  
31 DAILY CHART  CHARGES  
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES  
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE  
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES  
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)  
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG  
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES  
Sl 
No. Item  
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM  
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)  
3 EYE PAD  
4 EYE SHEILD  
5 CAMERA COVER  
6 DVD, CD CHARGES  
7 GAUSE SOFT  
8 GAUZE  
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOO KING CHARGES  
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS  
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER  
13 SURGICAL DRILL  
14 EYE KIT  
15 EYE DRAPE  
16 X-RAY FILM  
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES  
18 COTTON  
19 COTTON BANDAGE  
20 SURGICAL TA PE 
21 APRON  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  
 
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IR DAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & 
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and us ed by the Company under 
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223  
  39 | P a g e                      
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment  
 
 
 22 TORNIQUET  
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE  
Sl 
No. Item  
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES  
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE  
3 URINE CONTAINER  
4 BLOOD RE SERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES  
5 BIPAP MACHINE  
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS  
7 INFUSION PUMP – COST  
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE \SPIRIT \ DISINFECTANTS ETC  
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES - DIET CHARGES  
10 HIV KIT  
11 ANTISEPTIC MOU THWASH  
12 LOZENGES  
13 MOUTH PAINT  
14 VACCINATION CHARGES  
15 ALCOHOL SWAB ES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION /STERILLIUM  
17 Glucometer& Strips  
18 URINE BAG  


--- DOCUMENT TABLES ---

Table 1:
   Unnamed: 0 Unnamed: 1                                         Unnamed: 2                        The following are excluded:
0         NaN        NaN                                                    Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction...
1         NaN        NaN                                                NaN                                   Troponin I or T.
2         NaN        NaN                                                                      Other acute Coronary Syndromes.
3         NaN        NaN                                                                          Any type of angina pectoris
4         NaN        NaN                                                NaN                                                NaN
5         NaN        iv)         Kidney Failure requiring Regular Dialysis:                                                NaN
6         NaN        NaN  End stage renal disease presented as chronic i...                                                NaN
7         NaN        NaN  function, as a result of which either regular ...                                                NaN
8         NaN        NaN  dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantati...                                                NaN
9         NaN        NaN  The diagnosis has to be confirmed by a special...                                                NaN
10        NaN        NaN                                                NaN                                                NaN
11        NaN         v)               Major Organ/ Bone Marrow Transplant:                                                NaN
12        NaN        NaN          The actual undergoing of a transplant of:                                                NaN
13        NaN        NaN                                                    One of the following human organs - heart, lun...
14        NaN        NaN                                                NaN  resulted from irreversible end-stage failure o...
15        NaN        NaN                                                    Human bone marrow using hematopoietic stem cells.
16        NaN        NaN                                                NaN                                                NaN
17        NaN        NaN  The undergoing of a transplant must be confirm...                                                NaN
18        NaN        NaN                        The following are excluded:                                                NaN
19        NaN        NaN                                                                          Other Stem-cell transplants
20        NaN        NaN                                                     Where only islets of Langerhans are transplanted
21        NaN        NaN                                                NaN                                                NaN
22        NaN        vi)       Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms:                                                NaN
23        NaN        NaN  The definite occurrence of Multiple Sclerosis....                                                NaN
24        NaN        NaN                                     the following:                                                NaN
25        NaN        NaN                                                    Investigation including typical MRI and CSF fi...
26        NaN        NaN                                                NaN    confirm the diagnosis to be multiple Sclerosis.
27        NaN        NaN                                                    There must be current clinical impairment of m...
28        NaN        NaN                                                NaN  must have persisted for a continuous period of...
29        NaN        NaN                                                    Well documented clinical history of exacerbati...
30        NaN        NaN                                                NaN  symptoms or neurological deficits with at leas...
31        NaN        NaN                                                NaN                   episodes at least 1 month apart.
32        NaN        NaN                                       Excluded is:                                                NaN
33                  NaN  Other causes of neurological damage such as SL...                                                NaN
34        NaN       vii)                      Permanent Paralysis of Limbs:                                                NaN
35        NaN        NaN  Total and irreversible loss of use of two or m...                                                NaN
36        NaN        NaN  the brain or spinal cord. A specialist Medical...                                                NaN
37        NaN        NaN  be of the opinion that paralysis will be perma...                                                NaN
38        NaN        NaN               be present for more than 3 months. .                                                NaN

Table 2:
   Unnamed: 0 We will cover the Medical Expenses for: We will not cover treatment, costs or expenses for*:
0         NaN  *The following exclusions apply in addition to...                                          
1         NaN  periods and general exclusions specified in Se...                                          
2         NaN  In addition to the waiting periods (Section C-...                                          
3         NaN  general exclusions (Section C-2&3), We will al...                                          
4         NaN                                           expenses                                          
5          1.  Inpatient Benefits: This section of benefits i...                                          
6         NaN                                                NaN                                          
7           •  An insured suffers an Accident or Illness, whi...                                          
8           •  Hospitalisation is necessary & is done for tre...                                          
9           •     Day care treatment is necessary and is done OR                                          
10          •     Domiciliary treatment is necessary and is done                                          
11          1  a. In-Patient TreatmentIf as per any or all of...                                          
12        NaN      below containing guidelines and protocols for                                          
13        NaN  This includes Evidence Based Medicines, the Ho...                                          
14        NaN  • Hospital room rent or boarding; treatment un...                                          
15        NaN   • Nursing; at the hospital is found unduly long:                                          
16        NaN                              • Intensive Care Unit                                          
17        NaN  • Medical Practitioners (Fees)  Medical text ...                                          
18        NaN  • Anesthesia  Standard treatment guidelines a...                                          
19        NaN  • Blood clinical establishment act of Governme...                                          
20        NaN                                    • Oxygen India,                                          
21        NaN  • Operation theatre  World Health Organisatio...                                          
22        NaN                  • Surgical appliances; protocols,                                          
23        NaN  • Medicines, drugs &  consumables;  Published...                                          
24        NaN                • Diagnostic procedures. providers,                                          
25        NaN          Guidelines set by medical societies like                                          
26        NaN       cardiological society of India, neurological                                          
27        NaN                              society of India etc.                                          
28        NaN                                                NaN                                          
29        NaN  b. Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for 1....                                          
30        NaN  consultations, investigations and medicines an...                                          
31        NaN  incurred upto 60 days before the date of 2. Ex...                                          
32        NaN  admission to the Hospital (Inpatient or Day in...                                          
33        NaN     Care or Domiciliary treatment) has taken place                                          
34        NaN       c. Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for                                          
35        NaN                  consultations, investigations and                                          
36        NaN              medicines incurred upto 90 days after                                          
37        NaN          discharge from Hospitalisation (Inpatient                                          
38        NaN             or Day Care or Domiciliary treatment).                                          
39        NaN  d. Day Care Procedures  1. Treatment that can ...                                          
40        NaN  Medical treatment or surgical procedure Patien...                                          
41        NaN  which is undertaken under general or local 2. ...                                          
42        NaN          anaesthesia, which require admission in a                                          

Table 3:
     1                       a. In-Patient Treatment          Unnamed: 0  Unnamed: 1 If as per any or all of the Medical references herein
0  NaN                                           NaN                 NaN         NaN      below containing guidelines and protocols for   
1  NaN                                 This includes                 NaN         NaN  Evidence Based Medicines, the Hospitalisation for   
2  NaN             • Hospital room rent or boarding;                 NaN         NaN  treatment under claim is not necessary or the ...   
3  NaN                                    • Nursing;                 NaN         NaN              at the hospital is found unduly long:   
4  NaN                         • Intensive Care Unit                 NaN         NaN                                                NaN   
5  NaN                • Medical Practitioners (Fees)                 NaN         NaN                               Medical text books,   
6  NaN                                  • Anesthesia                 NaN         NaN        Standard treatment guidelines as stated in   
7  NaN                                       • Blood                 NaN         NaN        clinical establishment act of Government of   
8  NaN                                      • Oxygen                 NaN         NaN                                             India,   
9  NaN                           • Operation theatre                 NaN         NaN                   World Health Organisation (WHO)   
10 NaN                        • Surgical appliances;                 NaN         NaN                                         protocols,   
11 NaN            • Medicines, drugs &  consumables;                 NaN         NaN                Published guidelines by healthcare   
12 NaN                      • Diagnostic procedures.                 NaN         NaN                                         providers,   
13 NaN                                           NaN                 NaN         NaN          Guidelines set by medical societies like   
14 NaN                                           NaN                 NaN         NaN       cardiological society of India, neurological   
15 NaN                                           NaN                 NaN         NaN                              society of India etc.   
16 NaN                                           NaN                 NaN         NaN                                                NaN   
17 NaN   b. Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for                 NaN         1.0  Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a),...   
18 NaN                 consultations, investigations       and medicines         NaN                                            and 1e)   
19 NaN                         incurred upto 60 days  before the date of         2.0      Expenses not related to the admission and not   
20 NaN   admission to the Hospital (Inpatient or Day                 NaN         NaN  incidental to the treatment for which the admi...   
21 NaN                Care or Domiciliary treatment)                 NaN         NaN                                    has taken place   
22 NaN  c. Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for                 NaN         NaN                                                NaN   
23 NaN                 consultations, investigations                 and         NaN                                                NaN   
24 NaN                            medicines incurred  upto 90 days after         NaN                                                NaN   
25 NaN     discharge from Hospitalisation (Inpatient                 NaN         NaN                                                NaN   
26 NaN        or Day Care or Domiciliary treatment).                 NaN         NaN                                                NaN   
27 NaN                        d. Day Care Procedures                 NaN         1.0  Treatment that can be and is usually taken on ...   
28 NaN                          Medical treatment or  surgical procedure         NaN                        Patientbasis is not covered   
29 NaN    which is undertaken under general or local                 NaN         2.0                Treatment a NOT taken at a Hospital   
30 NaN                    anaesthesia, which require      admission in a         NaN                                                NaN   

Table 4:
          HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited                                         Unnamed: 0  ...      Unnamed: 5 Unnamed: 6
0                                                 NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
1         Hospital/Day Care Centre for stay less than                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
2          24 hours. Treatment normally taken on out-                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
3       patient basis is not included in the scope of                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
4                                    this definition.                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
5                         e. Domiciliary Treatment 1.                                  Treatment of less  ...  (Coverage will         be
6                            Medical treatment for an                              provided for expenses  ...  in first three       days
7          Illness/disease/injury which in the normal   only if treatment period is greater than 3 days)  ...             NaN        NaN
8        course would require care and treatment at a                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
9       Hospital but is actually taken while confined                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
10                 at home under any of the following                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
11                                     circumstances:                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
12      1. The condition of the Patient  is such that                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
13         he/she is not in a condition to be removed                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
14                                  to a Hospital or,                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
15          2. The Patient takes treatment at home on                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
16           account of non availability of room in a                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
17                                          Hospital.                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
18          Pre and Post Hospitalisation expenses for                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
19        consultations, investigations and medicines                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
20       incurred upto 60 days before hospitalisation                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
21     and 90 days after hospitalization respectively                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
22             will be covered in case of domiciliary                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
23                                         treatment.                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
24                                f. Organ Donor:  1.  Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a) for  ...             NaN        NaN
25               Medical and surgical expenses of the                                    insured member.  ...             NaN        NaN
26            organ donor for harvesting the organ 2.  Admission not compliant under the Transplantation  ...             NaN        NaN
27          where an Insured Person is the recipient.            of Human Organs Act, 1994 (as amended).  ...             NaN        NaN
28                                                 3.                                  The organ donor’s  ...             NaN        NaN
29                 IMPORTANT: Expenses incurred by an                                          expenses.  ...             NaN        NaN
30          insured person while donating an organ is                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
31                                       NOT covered.                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
32                                   g. Ambulance: 1.  Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a) and  ...             NaN        NaN
33           Expenses incurred on a transportation of                                                1d)  ...             NaN        NaN
34                Insured Person to a Hospital for 2.       Healthcare or ambulance service provider not  ...             NaN        NaN
35                 treatment in case of an emergency,            registered with road traffic authority.  ...             NaN        NaN
36           subject to Rs. 2000 per Hospitalisation.                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
37                                h. Ayush Benefit 1.      Claims which have not been admitted under 1a)  ...             NaN        NaN
38            Expenses incurred on treatment taken 2.  Hospitalisation for evaluation, Investigation ...  ...             NaN        NaN
39                under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and 3.                    Treatment availed outside India  ...             NaN        NaN
40          Homeopathy in a government hospital or 4.                          Treatment at a healthcare  ...    which is NOT          a
41          in any institute recognized by government                                          Hospital.  ...             NaN        NaN
42            and/or accredited by Quality Council of                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
43              India/National Accreditation Board on                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
44             Health subject to amounts specified in                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
45                           the Schedule of Benefits                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
46               i. Daily Cash for choosing shared 1.   Daily Cash Benefit for time spent by the Insured  ...             NaN        NaN
47                                      Accommodation                   Person in an intensive care unit  ...             NaN        NaN
48      Daily cash amount will be payable per day  2.                                  Claims which have  ...  admitted under        NaN
49            as mentioned in schedule of Benefits if                                               1a).  ...             NaN        NaN
50              the Insured Person is Hospitalised in                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
51                  Shared Accommodation in a Network                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
52                   Hospital for each continuous and                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
53                completed period of 24 hours if the                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
54                  Hospitalisation exceeds 48 hours.                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN
55  2)  Additional Benefits: The following benefit...                                                NaN  ...             NaN        NaN

[56 rows x 8 columns]

Table 5:
          HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
0                                                 NaN
1   Any claims made under these benefits will be s...
2   for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup Thes...
3   selected, as mentioned in the schedule of bene...
4                                                 NaN
5   a. Daily Cash for Accompanying an Insured 1. D...
6                                     Child discharge
7   If the Insured Person Hospitalised is a Claims...
8            child Aged 12 years or less,  daily cash
9              amount will be payable as mentioned in
10            schedule of Benefits for 1 accompanying
11               adult for each complete period of 24
12                hours if Hospitalisation exceeds 72
13                                             hours.
14  b. Newborn baby  1. Claims which have NOT been...
15  Medical Expenses for any medically Maternity E...
16  necessary treatment described at 1)a) 2. Claim...
17  while the Insured Person (the Newborn Section ...
18            baby) is Hospitalised during the Policy
19                  Period as an inpatient provided a
20                 proposal form is submitted for the
21            insurance of the newborn baby within 90
22                  days after the birth, and We have
23                 accepted the same and received the
24                                    premium sought.
25                   Under this benefit, Coverage for
26            newborn baby will incept from the date,
27                     the premium has been received.
28                                                NaN
29                                                NaN
30              The coverage is subject to the policy
31                  exclusions, terms and conditions.
32                                                NaN
33            This Benefit is applicable if Maternity
34             benefit is opted and  We have accepted
35               a maternity claim under this Policy.
36                                                NaN
37  c. Recovery Benefit  1. Claims which have NOT ...
38                  Lumpsum amount will be payable as
39           mentioned in schedule of Benefits if the
40               Insured Person is Hospitalised as an
41                inpatient beyond 10 consecutive and
42                                    continuous days
43              This benefit is payable only once per
44                  Illness/Accident per Policy Year.
45  d. Emergency Air Ambulance Cover 1. Claims whi...
46  We will pay for ambulance Inpatient Treatment ...
47  transportation in an airplane or 2. Expenses i...
48  helicopter subject to maximum limit insured’s ...
49            prescribed in d(i) , for emergency life
50                threatening health conditions which
51              require immediate and rapid ambulance
52             transportation to the hospital/medical
53                  centre that ground transportation
54                         cannot provide subject to:
55                  • Necessary medical treatment not

Table 6:
          HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
0                                                 NaN
1           being available at the location where the
2           Insured Person is situated at the time of
3                                          Emergency;
4                       • The Medical Evacuation been
5            prescribed by a Medical Practitioner and
6                             is Medically Necessary;
7                • The insured person is in India and
8             the treatment is required in India only
9                   and not overseas in any condition
10                                    whatsoever; and
11                 • The air ambulance provider being
12                               registered in India.
13                                                NaN
14              d(i)The amount payable in case of Air
15             ambulance facility shall be either the
16                actual expenses or Rs. 2.5 Lacs per
17          hospitalization, whichever is lower; upto
18                 basic sum insured limit for a year
19  3. Additional Benefit not related to Sum Insur...
20  during the Policy Period. Any claims made unde...
21  and will not impact eligibility for a Cumulati...
22  on the plan variant selected, as mentioned in ...
23                                                NaN
24  a. Maternity Expenses  1. Pre- and post-hospit...
25        i. Medical Expenses for a delivery and 1-c)
26  (including caesarean section) as 2. Ectopic pr...
27  mentioned in schedule of Benefits shall be cov...
28  while Hospitalised or the lawful medical 3. Cl...
29  termination of pregnancy during the spouse und...
30           Policy Period limited to 2 deliveries or
31                  terminations or either during the
32                     lifetime of the Insured Person
33             ii. Medical Expenses for pre-natal and
34                post-natal expenses per delivery or
35              termination upto the amount stated in
36                          the Schedule of Benefits,
37             iii. Medical Expenses incurred for the
38               medically necessary treatment of the
39               new born baby upto the amount stated
40             in the Schedule of Benefits unless the
41                new born baby is covered under 2b),
42                                                and
43           iv. The Insured Person must have been an
44            Insured Person under Our Policy for the
45           period of time specified in the Schedule
46                                       of Benefits.
47                                                NaN
48                                                NaN
49                                                NaN
50            4.  Critical Illness (Optional benefit)
51  Any claims made under this benefit will not be...
52  for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup. Thi...
53                                          Schedule.
54  4 a. Critical Illness (Optional benefit) 1. Th...
55  We will pay the Critical Illness Sum from a Cr...

Table 7:
      Unnamed: 0 Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date)              Unnamed: 1
0   Average Step  Risk start date or date 91-180 days 181-270 da...            Maximum Discount
1         Target                         of download of mobile days      at the end of the year
2            NaN                               application -90 days                         NaN
3  5000 or below                                        0% 0% 0% 0%                          0%
4   5001 to 8000                                0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%                          2%
5  8001 to 10000                            1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25%                          5%
6    Above 10000                                       2%  2% 2% 2%                          8%

Table 8:
   Unnamed: 0   Unnamed: 1 Unnamed: 2 Time Interval ((calculated from policy risk start date) Unnamed: 3 Unnamed: 4
0         NaN   Risk start     91-180            181-270 271-360 361-450 451-540 541-630         631-660    Maximum
1     Average      date or       days                           days days days days days            days   Discount
2        Step      date of        NaN                                                NaN             NaN     at the
3      target     download        NaN                                                NaN             NaN   end of 2
4         NaN    of mobile        NaN                                                NaN             NaN      years
5         NaN  application        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
6         NaN     -90 days        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
7     5000 or          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
8         NaN           0%         0%                                     0% 0% 0% 0% 0%              0%         0%
9       below          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
10    5001 to          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
11        NaN        0.25%      0.25%                      0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25%           0.25%         2%
12       8000          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
13    8001 to          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
14        NaN       0.625%     0.625%                 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625%          0.625%         5%
15      10000          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
16      Above          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN
17        NaN           1%         1%                                     1% 1% 1% 1% 1%              1%         8%
18      10000          NaN        NaN                                                NaN             NaN        NaN

Table 9:
  Policy start date 1st Jan 2016
0     Policy Tenure       1 year

Table 10:
                Unnamed: 0            Unnamed: 1     Time Interval         Unnamed: 2     Unnamed: 3
0                      NaN    Risk start date or               NaN                NaN            NaN
1                      NaN   date of download of               NaN                NaN            NaN
2                      NaN  mobile application -               NaN                NaN            NaN
3                      NaN               90 days  91 days-180 days  181 days-270 days  271- 300 days
4   average steps taken in                   NaN               NaN                NaN            NaN
5  the defined time period                  8500             10000               5001           7500
6     discount %applicable                 1.25%             1.25%               0.5%           0.5%

Table 11:
                     Plan                             Standard Unnamed: 0 Unnamed: 1 Unnamed: 2  ...  Unnamed: 4  Unnamed: 5 Unnamed: 6 Unnamed: 7 Unnamed: 8
0  Easy Health Individual                           Upto 1% of        Sum    Insured        per  ...         Sum     Insured    subject         to          a
1                     NaN    Insured Person upto Rs.5000, only        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         NaN         NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN
2                     NaN  once at the end of a block of every        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         NaN         NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN
3                     NaN    continuous four claim free years.        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         NaN         NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN
4                     NaN                                  NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         NaN         NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN
5      Easy Health Family    Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         NaN         NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN
6                     NaN   upto Rs.5000, only once at the end        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         NaN         NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN
7                     NaN  of a block of every continuous four        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         end  of a block         of      every        NaN
8                     NaN                     claim free years        NaN        NaN        NaN  ...         NaN         NaN        NaN        NaN        NaN

[9 rows x 12 columns]

Table 12:
   Unnamed: 0         Unnamed: 1                          Unnamed: 2    Surgeries/ procedure (irrespective of
0         Sl.      Organ / Organ  Illness/Diagnosis (irrespective of                                      NaN
1         NaN                NaN                                 NaN       any illness / diagnosis other than
2         No.             System     treatments medical or surgical)                                      NaN
3         NaN                NaN                                 NaN                                 cancers)
4         NaN                NaN                                 NaN                           Adenoidectomy
5         NaN                NaN                                 NaN                           Mastoidectomy
6         NaN                NaN                          Sinusitis                                      NaN
7         NaN                NaN                                 NaN                           Tonsillectomy
8         NaN                NaN                           Rhinitis                                      NaN
9         NaN                NaN                                 NaN                           Tympanoplasty
10        NaN  Ear, Nose, Throat                        Tonsillitis                                      NaN
11         a.                NaN                                 NaN      Surgery for nasal septum deviation
12        NaN              (ENT)                                 NaN                                      NaN
13        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                  Nasal concha resection
14        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                                      NaN
15        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                       Nasal polypectomy
16        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                                      NaN
17        NaN                NaN                                 NaN       Surgery for Turbinate hypertrophy
18        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                                      NaN
19        NaN                NaN            Cysts, polyps including                                      NaN
20        NaN                NaN                        breast lumps                                      NaN
21        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                             Hysterectomy
22         b.     Gynaecological                 Polycystic ovarian                                      NaN
23        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                                      NaN
24        NaN                NaN                             disease                                      NaN
25        NaN                NaN              Fibroids (fibromyoma)                                      NaN
26        NaN                NaN            Non infective arthritis                                      NaN
27        NaN                NaN                                 NaN   Surgery for prolapsed inter vertebral
28        NaN                NaN                Gout and Rheumatism                                      NaN
29         c.        Orthopaedic                                 NaN                                     disk
30        NaN                NaN                 Osteoarthritis and                                      NaN
31        NaN                NaN                                 NaN             Joint replacement surgeries
32        NaN                NaN                        Osteoporosis                                      NaN
33        NaN                NaN               Calculus diseases of                                      NaN
34        NaN                NaN              gall bladder including                                      NaN
35        NaN                NaN                       Cholecystitis                                      NaN
36        NaN                NaN                       Pancreatitis                                      NaN
37        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                         Cholecystectomy
38         d.   Gastrointestinal           Fissure/fistula in anus,                                      NaN
39        NaN                NaN                                 NaN                       Surgery of hernia
40        NaN                NaN        hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus                                      NaN
41        NaN                NaN               Ulcer and erosion of                                      NaN
42        NaN                NaN                stomach and duodenum                                      NaN
43        NaN                NaN                  Gastro Esophageal                                      NaN

Table 13:
        HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited                       Unnamed: 0
0                                               NaN                              NaN
1                            Reflux Disorder (GERD)                              NaN
2                           All forms of cirrhosis                              NaN
3                        (Please Note: All forms of                              NaN
4                  cirrhosis due to alcohol will be                              NaN
5                                         excluded)                              NaN
6                               Perineal Abscesses                              NaN
7                              Perianal  Abscesses                              NaN
8                             Calculus diseases of                              NaN
9                        Urogenital system Example:                              NaN
10                                              NaN             Surgery on prostate
11                    Kidney stone, Urinary bladder                              NaN
12                                    e. Urogenital          Surgery for Hydrocele/
13                                           stone.                              NaN
14                                              NaN                        Rectocele
15                           Benign Hyperplasia of                              NaN
16                                         prostate                              NaN
17                                        Cataract                              NaN
18                                           f. Eye                             NIL
19                                              NaN                              NaN
20                                              NaN   Surgery of varicose veins and
21                                  g. Others  NIL                              NaN
22                                              NaN                  varicose ulcers
23                                          General                              NaN
24                              ( Applicable to all                              NaN
25                        organ  Internal tumours,                              NaN
26  h. systems/organs/ cysts, nodules, polyps, skin                             NIL
27                             disciplines  tumours                              NaN
28                                   whether or not                              NaN
29                                 described above)                              NaN

Table 14:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [Medical Exclusions, 3) Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictivecondition and consequences thereof. Code – Excl124) Obesity/ Weight Control: Code – Excl06Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does notfulfil all the below conditions:i.Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctorii.Thesurgery/Procedureconductedshouldbesupportedbyclinical protocolsiii.The member has to be 18 years of age or older andiv.Body Mass Index (BMI);a)greater than or equal to 40 orb)greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of thefollowingsevereco-morbiditiesfollowingfailureoflessinvasive methods of weight loss:i.Obesity-related cardiomyopathyii.Coronary heart diseaseiii.Severe Sleep Apnoeaiv.Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes5) Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due torefractive error less than 7.5 dioptres: Code – Excl156) Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: Code- Excl08Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to changeappearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s)or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove adirectandimmediatehealthrisktotheinsured.Forthistobeconsidered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attendingMedical Practitioner.7) Change-of-Gender treatments: Code – Excl07Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management,to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex.8) Unproven Treatments:Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and suppliesfor or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments aretreatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medicaldocumentation to support their effectiveness. Code – Excl169) Investigation & Evaluation: Code – Excl04a)Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics andevaluation purposes only are excluded.b)Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidentalto the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded.10)Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care: Code – Excl05a)Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed restand not for receiving treatment. This also includes:i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility forpersonal care such as help with activities of daily living such asbathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses orassistant or non-skilled persons.ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to addressphysical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.11)Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spasor similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursinghome attached to such establishments or where admission isarranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. Code – Excl1312)Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchasedwithout prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals]
Index: []

Table 15:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [Unnamed: 0, and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioneras part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. Code – Excl1413)Maternity( except to the extent provided for under SectionB.1.3.a)):Code – Excl18i. Medicaltreatmentexpensestraceabletochildbirth(includingcomplicateddeliveriesandcaesareansectionsincurredduringhospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;ii. Expensestowardsmiscarriage(unlessduetoanaccident)andlawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period.14)Sterility and Infertility: Code – Excl17Expenses related to  sterility and infertility. This includes:i. Any type of contraception, sterilizationii. AssistedReproductionservicesincludingartificialinseminationand advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT,ICSIiii. Gestational Surrogacyiv. Reversal of sterilization15)Excluded Providers: Code – Excl11Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by anyMedical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded bythe Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to thepolicyholders are not admissible.  However, in case of lifethreatening situations or following an accident, expenses up to thestage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.]
Index: []

Table 16:
  Non Medical Exclusions 1)Treatment arising from or consequent upon war or any act of\rwar, invasion, act of foreign enemy, (whether war be declared\rornotorcausedduringserviceinthearmedforcesofany\rcountry),civilwar,publicdefence,rebellion,revolution,\rinsurrection,militaryorusurpedacts,nuclear\rweapons/materials,chemicalandbiologicalweapons,\rradiation of any kind.\r2)Intentionalselfinjuryorattemptedsuicidewhilesaneor\rinsane.\r3)AnyInsuredPerson’sparticipationorinvolvementinnaval,\rmilitary or air force operation.
0     Medical Exclusions  4) Prosthetic and other devices which are self...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

Table 17:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [Unnamed: 0, 13)Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies14)Expenses  incurred by the insured on organ donation15)Treatment and supplies for analysis and adjustments of spinalsubluxation, diagnosis and treatment by manipulation of the skeletalstructure; muscle stimulation by any means except treatment offractures (excluding hairline fractures) and dislocations of themandible and extremities.16)Dental treatment and surgery of any kind, unless requiringHospitalisation17)Any non medical expenses mentioned in List 1 of Annexure I18)Treatment rendered by a Medical Practitioner which is outsidehis discipline or the discipline for which he is licensed.19)Treatments rendered by a Medical Practitioner who is amember of the Insured Person’s family or stays with him, howeverproven material costs are eligible for reimbursement in accordancewith the applicable cover.20)Any treatment or part of a treatment that is not of areasonable charge and not Medically Necessary.21)Drugs or treatments which are not supported by aprescription.22)Any specific time bound or lifetime exclusion(s) applied by Usand specified in the Schedule and accepted by the insured.23)Admission for administration of Intra-articular or Intra-lesionalinjections, Supplementary medications like Zolendronic acid (Tradename Zometa, Reclast, etc.) or IV immunoglobulin infusion]
Index: []

Table 18:
  The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company
0  to make any payment for claim(s) arising under...                                            

Table 19:
            1 Year Policy Period Unnamed: 0           2 Year Policy Period Unnamed: 1
0  Length of time Policy in % of    premium  Length of time Policy in % of    premium
1                 force refunded        NaN                 force refunded        NaN
2            Upto 1 Month 75.00%        NaN            Upto 1 Month 87.50%        NaN
3           Upto 3 Months 50.00%        NaN           Upto 3 Months 75.00%        NaN
4           Upto 6 Months 25.00%        NaN           Upto 6 Months 62.50%        NaN
5         Exceeding 6 Months Nil        NaN          Upto 12 Months 48.00%        NaN
6                            NaN        NaN          Upto 15 Months 25.00%        NaN
7                            NaN        NaN          Upto 18 Months 12.00%        NaN
8                            NaN        NaN        Exceeding 18 Months Nil        NaN

Table 20:
  Options Instalment Premium Option Grace Period applicable
0      Option 1 Multi-Year / Yearly                 30 days
1              Option 2 Half Yearly                 30 days
2                Option 3 Quarterly                 30 days
3          15 Days Option 4 Monthly                     NaN

Table 21:
                          Unnamed: 0  ...                                         Unnamed: 3
0                     Contact Points  ...                                 Escalation level 2
1                                NaN  ...                                                NaN
2                      Contact us at  ...  https://www.hdfcergo.com/custo\rmer-care/griev...
3  Contact Point for\rSenior Citizen  ...  https://www.hdfcergo.com/\rcustomer-care/griev...
4                     Write to us at  ...                                   cgo@hdfcergo.com
5                           Visit us  ...  The Chief Grievance Officer,\rRegistered &\rCo...

[6 rows x 4 columns]

Table 22:
  Unnamed: 0  Unnamed: 1              Treatment, Consultation or Procedure:                               We must be notified:
0         i.         NaN  If any treatment for which a claim may be made...  Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours...
1        ii.         NaN  If any treatment for which a claim may be made...  Within 24 hours of the start of the Insured\rP...
2       iii.         NaN  For all benefits which are contingent on Our p...  Within 7 days of the Insured Person’s discharg...

Table 23:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [Unnamed: 0, Treatment, Consultationor Procedure:, Treatment,Consultation orProcedure Takenat:, Cashless Serviceis Available:, We must be givennotice that the InsuredPerson wishes to takeadvantage of thecashless serviceaccompanied by fullparticulars.]
Index: []

Table 24:
    i.  ... At least 48 hours before\rthe planned treatment\ror hospitalisation.
0  ii.  ...  Within 24 hours after\rthe treatment or\rHospi...                  

[1 rows x 5 columns]

Table 25:
                        Claim Intimation: Customer Service No. 022-62346234 / 0120-62346234\r\rEmail: healthclaims@hdfcergo.com
0  Claim document submission at\raddress:  HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rStellar ...                                   

Table 26:
                                      Office Details Jurisdiction of Office\rUnion Territory,District)
0  AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh\rOffice of the I...   Gujarat,\rDadra & Nagar Haveli,\rDaman and Diu.
1  BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah\rOffice of the In...                                        Karnataka.
2  BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava\rOffice o...                      Madhya Pradesh\rChattisgarh.
3  BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra\rPanda\rOff...                                           Orissa.

Table 27:
  62, Forest park,\rBhubneshwar – 751 009.\rTel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455\rFax: 0674 - 2596429\rEmail: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in                                         Unnamed: 0
0  CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma\rOffice of...                                                                                        Punjab,\rHaryana(excluding Gurugram, Faridabad...
1  CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna\rOffice of ...                                                                                        Tamil Nadu,\rTamil Nadu\rPuducherryTown and\rK...
2  DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna\rOffice of the Ins...                                                                                        Delhi &\rFollowing Districts of Haryana - Guru...
3  GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha\rOffice of the...                                                                                        Assam,\rMeghalaya,\rManipur,\rMizoram,\rArunac...
4  HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu\rOffice of the...                                                                                        Andhra Pradesh,\rTelangana,\rYanam and\rpart o...
5  JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga\rOffice of the In...                                                                                                                               Rajasthan.

Table 28:
  Bhawani Singh Marg,\rJaipur - 302 005.\rTel.: 0141 - 2740363\rEmail: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in                                         Unnamed: 0
0  ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra\rOffice of the In...                                                   Kerala,\rLakshadweep,\rMahe-a part of Union Te...
1  KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath\rOffice of the Insur...                                                   West Bengal,\rSikkim,\rAndaman & Nicobar Islands.
2  LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar\rSrivastava\r...                                                   Districts of Uttar Pradesh :\rLalitpur, Jhansi...
3  MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat\rOffice of the ...                                                   Goa,\rMumbai Metropolitan Region\rexcluding Na...
4  NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad\rOffice of...                                                   State of Uttaranchal and the following\rDistri...

Table 29:
                Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha,\rHathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
0  PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh\rOffice of the Insura...                                 Bihar,\rJharkhand.                              
1  PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah\rOffice of the Insurance...  Maharashtra,\rArea of Navi Mumbai and Thane\re...                              

Table 30:
                                           Unnamed: 0  ...                            Unnamed: 2
0   Sum Insured per\rInsured Person\rper Policy Ye...  ...            15.00,20.00,\r25.00, 50.00
1                          1 a) In-patient\rTreatment  ...                                   NaN
2                          1 b) Pre-\rhospitalization  ...                                   NaN
3                         1 c) Post-\rhospitalization  ...                                   NaN
4                           1 d) Day Care\rProcedures  ...                                   NaN
5                         1 e) Domiciliary\rTreatment  ...                                   NaN
6                                   1 f) Organ\rDonor  ...                                   NaN
7                          1 g)) Emergency\rAmbulance  ...                                   NaN
8                                 1 h) Ayush\rBenefit  ...                                   NaN
9   1  i) Daily Cash\rfor choosing\rShared\rAccomm...  ...  Rs.1000 per\rday,\rMaximum\rRs.6,000
10                               2 a) Daily Cash\rfor  ...                      Rs.800 per\rday,

[11 rows x 5 columns]

Table 31:
   Unnamed: 0  ...                                 Maximum\rRs.24,000
0         NaN  ...                                                NaN
1         NaN  ...                                                NaN
2         NaN  ...                                                NaN
3         NaN  ...  Normal\rDelivery Rs.\r30,000*\rCaesarean\rDeli...
4         NaN  ...                                                NaN
5         NaN  ...                                                NaN
6         NaN  ...                                                NaN
7         NaN  ...                                                NaN
8         NaN  ...                                                NaN
9         NaN  ...                                                NaN

[10 rows x 7 columns]

Table 32:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [Unnamed: 0, Standard, Exclusive, Unnamed: 1, Unnamed: 2]
Index: []

Table 33:
   Sum Insured per\rPolicy per Policy\rYear (Rs. in\rLakh)  ...                         15.00,20.00,\r25.00, 50.00
0                          1 a) In-patient\rTreatment       ...                                                NaN
1                          1 b) Pre-\rhospitalization       ...                                                NaN
2                         1 c) Post-\rhospitalization       ...                                                NaN
3                           1 d) Day Care\rProcedures       ...                                                NaN
4                         1 e) Domiciliary\rTreatment       ...                                                NaN
5                                   1 f) Organ\rDonor       ...                                                NaN
6                          1 g)) Emergency\rAmbulance       ...                                                NaN
7                                 1 h) Ayush\rBenefit       ...                                                NaN
8   1  i) Daily Cash\rfor choosing\rShared\rAccomm...       ...                 Rs.1000 per day,\rMaximum Rs.6,000
9   2 a) Daily Cash\rfor\raccompanying\ran insured...       ...                 Rs.800 per day,\rMaximum Rs.24,000
10                                 2 b) Newborn\rbaby       ...                                                NaN
11                            2 c)  Recovery\rBenefit       ...                                                NaN
12                      2 d) Emergency\rAir Ambulance       ...                                                NaN
13                           3 a) Maternity\rExpenses       ...  Normal Delivery Rs.\r30,000*\rCaesarean Delive...
14                                                NaN       ...                                                NaN
15           4  Critical Illness\r(Optional\rbenefit)       ...                                                NaN

[16 rows x 5 columns]

Table 34:
                                          Unnamed: 0  ... 100% of In-patient Sum\rInsured upto a maximum\rof Rs 10 Lacs
0                             5.1. Cumulative\rbonus  ...                                                NaN           
1                                   5.2. Stay Active  ...                                                NaN           
2                               5.3. Health\rCheckup  ...                                                NaN           
3  Benefits under 5.1,5.2,5.3 are subject to pre-...  ...                                                NaN           

[4 rows x 4 columns]

Table 35:
    S.\rNo.                                               Item  S.\rNo..1                                             Item.1
0         1                                          BABY FOOD         35  OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE\rHOSPITAL)
1         2                             BABY UTILITIES CHARGES         36                                             SPACER
2         3                                    BEAUTY SERVICES         37                                         SPIROMETRE
3         4                                      BELTS/ BRACES         38                                      NEBULIZER KIT
4         5                                               BUDS         39                                      STEAM INHALER
5         6                                 COLD PACK/HOT PACK         40                                           ARMSLING
6         7                                         CARRY BAGS         41                                        THERMOMETER
7         8                           EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES         42                                    CERVICAL COLLAR
8         9  FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN\rPATIENT'S DIET PROVI...         43                                             SPLINT
9        10                                           LEGGINGS         44                                 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
10       11                                    LAUNDRY CHARGES         45                  KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
11       12                                      MINERAL WATER         46              KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
12       13                                       SANITARY PAD         47                                  LUMBO SACRAL BELT
13       14                                  TELEPHONE CHARGES         48             NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
14       15                                     GUEST SERVICES         49                                   AMBULANCE COLLAR
15       16                                      CREPE BANDAGE         50                                AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
16       17                                 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE         51                                   ABDOMINAL BINDER

Table 36:
    18                                      EYELET COLLAR  52   PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING\rCHARGES
0   19                                             SLINGS  53                                 SUGAR FREE TABLETS
1   20  BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS\rMATCHING OF DONORS S...  54  CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE\rNOT PA...
2   21  SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING\rCHARGE ALSO CHA...  55                                     ECG ELECTRODES
3   22                                 TELEVISION CHARGES  56                                             GLOVES
4   23                                         SURCHARGES  57                                   NEBULISATION KIT
5   24                                  ATTENDANT CHARGES  58  ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED\r[DELIVERY K...
6   25  EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN\rTHAT WHICH ...  59                                        KIDNEY TRAY
7   26                                  BIRTH CERTIFICATE  60                                               MASK
8   27                                CERTIFICATE CHARGES  61                                        OUNCE GLASS
9   28                                    COURIER CHARGES  62                                        OXYGEN MASK
10  29                                 CONVEYANCE CHARGES  63                               PELVIC TRACTION BELT
11  30                                MEDICAL CERTIFICATE  64                                            PAN CAN
12  31                                    MEDICAL RECORDS  65                                       TROLLY COVER
13  32                                PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES  66                                UROMETER, URINE JUG
14  33                                   MORTUARY CHARGES  67                                          AMBULANCE
15  34                               WALKING AIDS CHARGES  68                                     VASOFIX SAFETY

Table 37:
    Sl\rNo                                       Item
0        1  BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
1        2                                  HAND WASH
2        3                                 SHOE COVER
3        4                                       CAPS
4        5                             CRADLE CHARGES
5        6                                       COMB
6        7            EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS
7        8                                 FOOT COVER
8        9                                       GOWN
9       10                                   SLIPPERS
10      11                               TISSUE PAPER
11      12                                TOOTH PASTE
12      13                                TOOTH BRUSH
13      14                                    BED PAN
14      15                                  FACE MASK
15      16                                 FLEXI MASK
16      17                                HAND HOLDER
17      18                                 SPUTUM CUP
18      19                       DISINFECTANT LOTIONS

Table 38:
    20                                         LUXURY TAX
0   21                                               HVAC
1   22                              HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
2   23                            AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
3   24                            IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
4   25                                        CLEAN SHEET
5   26                             BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
6   27                                      ADMISSION KIT
7   28                             DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
8   29    DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
9   30                        DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
10  31                                DAILY CHART CHARGES
11  32              ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
12  33      EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
13  34                               FILE OPENING CHARGES
14  35  INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLA...
15  36             PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
16  37                              PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES

Table 39:
    Sl\rNo.                                               Item
0         1                                 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
1         2  DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparati...
2         3                                            EYE PAD
3         4                                         EYE SHEILD
4         5                                       CAMERA COVER
5         6                                    DVD, CD CHARGES
6         7                                         GAUSE SOFT
7         8                                              GAUZE
8         9                   WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
9        10              ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS
10       11                                   MICROSCOPE COVER
11       12            SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER
12       13                                     SURGICAL DRILL
13       14                                            EYE KIT
14       15                                          EYE DRAPE
15       16                                         X-RAY FILM
16       17                           BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
17       18                                             COTTON
18       19                                     COTTON BANDAGE
19       20                                      SURGICAL TAPE
20       21                                              APRON

Table 40:
   22                   TORNIQUET
0  23  ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE

Table 41:
    Sl\rNo.                                               Item
0         1                     ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
1         2  HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PUR...
2         3                                    URINE CONTAINER
3         4  BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKI...
4         5                                      BIPAP MACHINE
5         6                              CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
6         7                                INFUSION PUMP– COST
7         8        HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC
8         9  NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES...
9        10                                            HIV KIT
10       11                               ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
11       12                                           LOZENGES
12       13                                        MOUTH PAINT
13       14                                VACCINATION CHARGES
14       15                                     ALCOHOL SWABES
15       16                          SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
16       17                                 Glucometer& Strips
17       18                                          URINE BAG



==================================================
DOCUMENT: ICIHLIP22012V012223.pdf
==================================================

--- DOCUMENT TEXT ---

For Buy/ Renew/ Service/ Claim r elated queries L og on to www.icicilombar d.com or call 1800 2666
1 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Golden Shield
Policy W ording
CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408theatre where surgical procedures are to be 
carried out;
   iv.  Maintaining daily records of the patients and 
making them accessible to the insurance 
company’ s authoriz ed representativ e
  AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes 
Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health 
Centre (PHC), Dispensar y, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such 
health centre which is registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities 
for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or 
surgical/para-sur gical interventions or both under the 
supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner 
(s) on day care basis without in- patient services and 
must comply with all the following criterion:
  a. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner(s) in charge;
  b. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as 
required and/or has equipped operation theatre 
where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
  c.  Maintaining daily records of the patients and 
making them accessible to the insurance 
company’ s authoriz ed representativ e.
  (Explanation: Medical practitioner referred in the 
definition of “AYUSH Hospital” and “AYUSH day care 
center” shall carry the same meaning as defined in the 
definition of “Medical practitioner ” under chapter I of 
Guidelines)
  Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the 
insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs 
of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made 
to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-
authorization approved.
  Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or 
condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the 
policy is conditional upon.
  Congenital Anomaly  refers to a condition(s) which is 
present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position.
  a. Internal Congenital Anomaly -Congenital anomaly 
which is not in the visible and accessible parts of 
the body
  b.  External Congenital Anomaly- Congenital 
anomaly which is in the visible and accessible 
parts of the body
  Co-payment  means a cost sharing requirement under 
a health insurance policy that provides that the 
policyholder/insured/proposer will bear a specified 
percentage of the admissible claims amount. A co-
payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.b.  Preamble
 This Policy has been issued on the basis of the Disclosur e to 
information Norm, including the information provided by 
Proposer in r espect of the Insur ed Persons in the P roposal 
Form, any application for insuranc e cover in respect of any 
Insured Person and any other information or details 
submitted in relation to the P roposal F orm. This P olicy is a 
contract of insuranc e between You and Us which is subject 
to the receipt of premium in full and accepted by Us in 
respect of the Insured Persons and the terms, conditions 
and exclusions as specified in the P olicy/ Policy Schedule / 
Product Benefit Table of this Policy.
c.  Definitions
 For the purposes of this Policy, the terms specified below 
shall have the meaning set forth wherever appearing/ 
specified in this Policy or related Extensions:
 Where the context so requires, references to the singular 
shall also include references to the plural and references to 
any gender shall include r eferences to all genders. F urther 
any references to statutory enactment include subsequent 
changes to the same.
 i.  Standar d definitions (Definitions whose wordings 
are specified by IRDAI)
  Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary 
event caused by external, visible and violent means.
  Any one illness means continuous Period of illness and 
it includes relapse within 45 days from the date of last 
consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where 
treatment was taken.
  Ayush Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein 
medical/ surgical/ para-surgical treatment procedures 
and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical 
practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
  a.  Central or State government AYUSH hospital; or
  b.  Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH college 
recognized by the central government/Central 
council of Indian medicine/ Central council for 
Homeopathy; or
  c.  AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-
patient healthcare facility of any recognized 
system of medicine, registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the 
supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH 
medical practitioner and must comply with the 
following criterion:
   i.  Having at least 5 in-patient beds
   ii.  Having qualified AYUSH medical practitioner 
in charge round the clock
   iii.  Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as 
required and/or has equipped operation 
2 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408  Grace Period means the specified period of time 
immediately following the premium due date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a 
policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such 
as waiting periods and coverage of Pre Existing 
Diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for 
which no premium is received.
  Hospital  means any institution established for in- 
patient car e and day car e treatment of illness and / or 
injuries and which has been registered as a hospital 
with the local authorities under the Clinical 
Establishments (Registration and Regulations) Act 
2010 or under enactments specified under the 
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act Or comply 
with all minimum criteria as under:
  a.  has qualified nursing staff under its employment 
round the clock;
  b.  has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns 
having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 15 
inpatient beds in all other places
  c.  has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge 
round the clock;
  d.  has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own 
where surgical procedures are carried out
  e.  maintains daily records of patients and makes 
these accessible to the Insurance company’s 
authoriz ed personnel.
  Hospitalisation  means admission in a Hospital for a 
minimum period of 24 consecutive in-patient care 
hours except for specified Procedures/Treatments, 
where such admission could be for a period of less than 
24 consecutiv e hours.
  Inpatient care means treatment for which the insured 
person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 24 hours 
for a covered event.
  Illness means a sickness or disease or pathological 
condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological function and requires medical treatment .
  a.  Acute condition  - Acute condition is a disease, 
illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or 
her state of health immediately before suffering 
the disease/illness/injury which leads to full 
recovery.
  b.  Chronic condition  - A chronic condition is defined 
as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more 
of the following characteristics:
   i.  it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring 
through consultations, examinations, check-
ups, and / or tests
   ii.  it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief 
of symptoms
   iii.  it requires your rehabilitation for the patient or 
for the patient to be specially trained to cope 
with it  Cumulativ e Bonus shall mean any increase or addition 
in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an 
associated increase in premium.
  Day care centre means any institution established for 
day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a 
medical setup with a hospital and which has been 
registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under supervision of a registered and 
qualified medical practitioner AND must comply with 
all minimum criterion as under :-
  a.  has qualified nursing staff under its employment;
  b.  has qualified medical practitioner /s in charge
  c.  has fully equipped operation theatre of its own 
where surgical procedures are carried out;
  d.  maintains daily records of patients and will make 
these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authoriz ed personnel
  Day Care Treatment  refers to medical treatment , and/ 
or Surgical Procedure which is
  i.  undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a 
Hospital/ Day care centre in less than 24 hrs 
because of technological advancement, and
  ii. which would have otherwise required a 
hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.
  Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is 
not included in the scope of this definition.
  Deductible is a cost sharing requirement under a 
health insuranc e policy that provides that provides 
that the insurer will not be liable for specified rupee 
amount in case of indemnit y policies and for a specified 
number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies, 
which will apply before any benefits are payable by the 
insurer A deductible does not reduce the sum insured.
  Dental treatment  means a treatment related to teeth 
or structures supporting teeth including examinations, 
fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and 
surgery.
  Disclosur e to information Norm means the policy shall 
be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited 
to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-
description or non-disclosur e of any material fact.
  Domiciliar y Hospitalisation  means medical treatment 
for an illness/disease/injur y which in the normal course 
would require care and treatment at a hospital but is 
actually taken while confined at home under any of the 
following circumstanc es:
  a.  the condition of the patient is such that he/she is 
not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, or
  b.  the patient takes treatment at home on account of 
non-availability of room in a hospital.
  Emergency Care means management for an illness or 
injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly 
and unexpectedly , and requires immediate care by a 
medical practitioner to prevent death or serious long 
term impairment of the insured person’s healthGolden Shield
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223
3 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408Health insuranc e policy), to transfer the credit gained 
for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, 
with the same insurer.
  Network Provider means hospitals or health care 
providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an 
insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an 
insured by a cashless facility.
  Non-Net work Provider means any Hospital, day car e 
centre or other provider that is not part of the Network.
  Notification of claim means the process of intimating a 
claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the 
recognized modes of communication
  OPD treatment  is one in which the Insured visits a 
clinic / hospital or associated facility like a consultation 
room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice 
of a Medical Practitioner . The Insured is not admitted as 
a day care or in-patient .
  Portability means the right accorded to an individual 
health insuranc e policyholder /proposers (including all 
members under family cover), to transfer the credit 
gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound 
exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer
  Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, 
injury or disease
  a.  That is/ are diagnosed by a physician within 48 
months prior to the effective date of the policy 
issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
  b.  For which medical advice or treatment was 
recommended by, or received from, a physician 
within 48 months prior to the ef fective date of the 
policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement .
  Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means 
medical expenses incurred during predefined number 
of days immediately after the Insured Person is 
discharged from the hospital, provided that :
  a.  Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition 
for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was 
required, and
  b.  The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such 
Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company.
  Pre-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means 
medical expenses incurred during predefined number 
of days preceding the hospitalization of the insured 
person, provided that:
  a.  Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same 
condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and
  b.  The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such 
Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company.
  Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid 
registration from the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India.   iv.  it continues indefinitely
   v.  It recurs or is likely to recur
  Injury means any accidental physical bodily harm, 
excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused 
by external, violent, visible and evident means which is 
verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner .
  Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward 
or wing of a hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and 
which is specially equipped for the continuous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a 
critical condition, or require life support facilities and 
where the level of care and supervision is considerably 
more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary 
and other wards
  ICU (Intensiv e Care Unit) Charges means the amount 
charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which 
shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical 
support services provided to any ICU patient including 
monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist 
charges.
  Maternit y expenses  means;
  a.  medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth 
(including complicated deliveries and caesarean 
sections incurred during Hospitalisation);
  b.  expenses towards lawful medical termination of 
pregnancy during the policy period.
  Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from 
a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any 
prescription or follow-up prescription.
  Medical Expenses  means those expenses that an 
Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred 
for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident 
on the advice of a Medical Practitioner , as long as these 
are no more than would have been payable if the 
Insured Person had not been insured and no more than 
other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would 
have charged for the same medical treatment .
  Medically Necessary Treatment  is defined as any 
treatment , tests medication or stay in hospital or part 
of a stay in Hospital which
  1.  Is required for the medical management of the 
illness or Injury suffered by the insured
  2.  Must not exceed the level of care necessary to 
provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical 
care in scope, duration or intensity
  3.  Must have been prescribed by a Medical 
practitioner
  4.  Must conform to the professional standard widely 
accepted in international medical practice or by the 
medical communit y in India
  Migration means the right accorded to health 
insurance policyholders/proposers (including all 
members under family cover and members of group 
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Golden Shield
4 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408the Policy Schedule and is/are hereinafter referred as 
“You”/“Your”/ “Yours”/ “Yourself”
  Medical Practitioner  is a person who holds a valid 
registration from the Medical Council of any State or 
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine 
or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India 
or a State Government and is thereby entitled to 
practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting 
within the scope and jurisdiction of his license.
  The term Medical Practitioner would include physician, 
specialist , anaesthetist and surgeon but would exclude 
You and Your spouse, Your children, Your brother(s), 
Your sister(s) and Your parent(s).
  Period of Insuranc e means the period as specifically 
appearing in the Policy Schedule and commencing 
from the Policy Period Start Date of the first Policy 
taken by You from Us and then, running concurrent to 
Your current Policy subject to the Your continuous 
renewal of such Policy with Us.
  Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy 
Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The 
Policy contains details of the extent of c over available 
to You, what is excluded from the cover and the terms & 
conditions on which the Policy is issued to You.
  Proposer means the person(s) or the entity named in 
the Policy Schedule who executed the Policy Schedule 
and is (are) responsible for payment of premium(s).
  Policy Period means the period c ommencing fr om the 
Policy Period Start Date, Time and ending at the Policy 
Period End Date, Time of the Policy and as specifically 
appearing in the Policy Schedule.
  Policy Year means a period of twelve months 
beginning from the Policy Period Start Date and ending 
on the last day of such twelve-month period. For the 
purpose of subsequent years, “Policy Year” shall mean 
a period of twelve months beginning from the end of 
the previous Policy Year and lapsing on the last day of 
such twelve-month period, till the Policy Period End 
Date, as specified in the Policy Schedule
  Service Provider  means any person, organization, 
institution, or company that has been empanelled with 
Us to provide services specified under the Benefits 
(including add-ons) to The Insured person. These shall 
also include all healthcar e providers empanelled to 
form a part of network other than hospitals.
  The list of the Service Providers is available at our 
website (https://www.icicilombard. com/content/ilom-
en/serviceprovider/search.asp) and is subject to 
amendment from time to time.
  You/Your/ Yours/ Yourself means the person(s) that 
We insure and is/are specifically named as Insured / 
Insured Person(s) in the Policy Schedule.
  We/ Our/ Ours/ Us means the ICICI Lombard General 
Insuranc e Company Limited  Reasonable and Customary Charges means the 
charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for the specific provider and 
consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, 
taking into account the nature of Illness/injur y involved.
  Renewal defines the terms on which the contract of 
insuranc e can be renewed on mutual consent with a 
provision of grace period for treating the renewal 
continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-
existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all 
waiting periods.
  Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital 
towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall 
include associated medical expenses.
  Subrogation shall mean the right of the insurer to 
assume the rights of the insured person to recover 
expenses paid out under the policy that may be 
recovered from any other source.
  Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or 
operativ e procedure (s) required for treatment of an 
illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, 
diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering or 
prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care 
centre by a Medical Practitioner
  Unproven/Experimental treatment  means treatment 
including drug experimental therapy which is not 
based on established medical practice in India, is 
treatment experimental or unproven.
 ii. Specific definitions (Definitions other than those 
mentioned under c. I. above)
  Admission  means Your admission in a Hospital as an 
inpatient for the purpose of medical treatment of an 
Injury and/or Illness.
  AYUSH treatments  refers to the medical aid and / or 
hospitalisation treatments given under ‘Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and 
Homeopathy systems
  Annual Sum Insured means and denotes the 
maximum amount of cover available to You during 
each Policy Year of the Policy Period, as stated in the 
Policy Schedule or any revisions thereof based on 
Claim settled under the Policy.
  Break in Policy occurs at the end of the existing policy 
term, when the premium due for renewal on a given 
policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal 
date or within 30 days thereof.
  Claim means a demand made by You or on Your behalf 
for payment of Medical Expenses or any other 
expenses or benefits, as covered under the Policy.
  Immediate Family means spouse, dependent children, 
brother(s), sister(s) and dependent parent(s) of the 
insured.
  Insured/Insured Person(s) means the individual(s) 
whose name(s) is/are specifically appearing as such in 
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Golden Shield
5 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408d.  Benefits covered under the policy
 The Benefits listed in base cover are in-built benefits and 
shall be available to all Insured Persons in accordance with 
the procedures set out in this Policy wording.
 This Policy covers Allopathic and AYUSH treatments taken 
in India ONLY. Any expenses incurred outside the policy 
period will NOT be covered.
 Any claims made under any of the benefits mentioned 
below (except Care management program, Care 
management plus program,) will impact eligibility for 
Additional Sum Insured.
 Any unutilized annual sum insured/tele-consultations/ e- 
consultations/benefits cannot be carried forward to the 
next policy year.
Base Cover
1.  In Patient Treatment
 We will cover the following Medical Expenses incurred in 
respect of Hospitalization of the Insured Person during the 
Policy Period, up to the Annual Sum Insured specified in the 
Policy Schedule against this Benefit:
 i.  Room Rent up to Twin sharing room (for Annual Sum 
Insured below ` 10 Lacs and Single private AC room for 
annual sum insured ` 10L and above);
 ii.  Intensive Care Unit Charges;
 iii.  Qualified Nurse charges;
 iv.  Medical Practitioner ’s Fees ;
 v.  Anaesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre 
charges, medicines, drugs and consumables (other 
than those specified in the list of excluded expenses 
(non-medical) in Annexur e I;
 vi.  Surgical appliances and prosthetic devices 
recommended in writing by the attending Medical 
Practitioner and that are used intra operativ ely during 
a Surgical Procedure;
 vii.  Cost of investigativ e tests or prescribed diagnostic 
procedures directly related to the Injury/Illness for 
which the Insured Person is Hospitaliz ed;
 We will consider a claim under this Benefit, subject to the 
following:
 i.  The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary 
Treatment .
 ii.  The hospitalization warrants inpatient admission in 
view of active line of treatment .
 iii.  The Hospitalization commenc es and continues on the 
written advice of a Medical Practitioner .
 iv.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and 
Customar y Charges.
 v.  If the Insured Person is admitted in a room category/ 
limit that is higher than the one that is specified in the 
Policy Schedule/ Product benefit table of this policy, 
then the Insured Person shall bear a rateable 
proportion of the total Associated medical expenses 
(including surcharges or taxes thereon) in the 
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223proportion of the difference between room rent of the 
entitled room category to the room rent actually 
incurred
  a.  For the purpose of this cover, “Associated medical 
expenses” shall include room rent, nursing 
charges, operation theatre charges, fees of 
medical practitioner including surgeon/ 
anaesthetist / specialist within the same hospital 
where the insured person has been admitted and 
will not include the cost of pharmacy and 
consumables, cost of implants, medical devices 
and cost of diagnostics.
  b.  Proportionate deductions are not applicable for 
ICU charges
  c.  Proportionate deductions shall not be applicable 
for hospitals which do not follow differential billing 
or for those expenses in respect of which 
differential billing is not adopted based on the 
room category.
 vi.  Expenses associated with automation machine for 
peritoneal dialysis shall not be payable
 vii.  Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in aggregate 
exceed the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum 
insured / cumulativ e bonus (if any) as specified in the 
Policy Schedule against this Benefit.
2.  Day Care Treatment
 We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of 
the Day Care Treatment of the Insured Person during the 
Policy Period provided that:
 i.  The Day Care Treatment is for Medically Necessary 
Treatment .
 ii.  The Day Care Treatment follows the written advice of a 
Medical Practitioner .
 iii.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and 
Customar y Charges.
 iv.  We will also cover Medical Expenses incurred for 
procedures including but not limited to intravenous 
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, hemodialysis or any 
other therapeutic procedure which requires a period of 
specialized observation or medical care after 
completion of the procedure.
 v.  We will not cover any Out Patient Treatment or 
diagnostic services under this Benefit.
 vi.  Expenses associated with automation machine for 
peritoneal dialysis shall not be payable
 vii.  Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in aggregate 
exceed the Sum Insured and additional sum insured/ 
cumulative bonus (if any) specified in the Policy 
Schedule against this Benefit.
3.  Coverage for Modern Treatments
 We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of 
Hospitalization of the Insured Person for the below 
mentioned modern treatments during the Policy Period, up 
to the Annual Sum InsuredGolden Shield
6 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 Sr. No. Treatment /Procedure
 1 Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High 
intensity focused ultrasound)
 2 Immunotherapy - Monoclonal Antibody to 
be given as injection
 3 Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser 
treatment or holmium laser treatment )
 4 Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells 
for bone marrow transplant for 
haematological conditions
 5 Balloon Sinuplast y
 6 Oral Chemotherap y
 7 Robotic surgeries*
 8 Stereotactic radio Surgeries
 9 Deep Brain stimulation
 10 Intra vitreal injections
 11 Bronchical Thermoplast y
 12 IONM - (Intra Operativ e Neuro Monitoring)
  Robotic surgeries shall be subject to sub-limits as 
mentioned under d. benefits covered under the policy 
Base cover 15 Sub-limits applicable
4.  Pre Hospitalisation expenses
 We will cover the Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses 
incurred in respect of the Insured Person for up to 60days 
immediately before the Insured Person’s Admission to 
Hospital provided that:
 i.  The Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred are 
Reasonable and Customar y Charges.
 ii.  We have accepted the claim under “d. Benefits covered 
under the policy Base cover 1. Inpatient Treatment” in 
respect of the Insured Person.
 iii.  We shall not be liable to make any payment in respect 
of any Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred 
prior to the Policy Period Start Date of the first policy 
with Us in respect of the Insured Person.
 iv.  Expenses incurred on nursing care at home are 
excluded from the scope of pre hospitalization 
expenses.
 v.  This Benefit will be provided on a reimbursement basis 
only.
 vi.  Any Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses payable 
shall not in aggregate exceed the Annual Sum Insured 
and additional sum insured /cumulativ e bonus (if any) 
as specified in the Policy Schedule against this Benefit
5.  Post Hospitalisation expenses
 We will cover the Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses 
incurred in respect of the Insured Person for up to 180 days 
immediately following the Insured Person’s discharge from 
Hospital provided that:
 i.  The Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred 
are Reasonable and Customar y Charges.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 ii.  We have accepted the claim under “Inpatient 
Treatment” in respect of the Insured Person.
 iii.  We will also consider Post-hospitalization Medical 
Expenses incurred on Physiotherapy provided that 
such Physiotherapy is advised in writing by the 
treating Medical Practitioner and is Medically 
Necessary Treatment . This service will be provided on 
a reimbursement and/ or cashless basis where ever 
applicable.
 iv.  Expenses incurred on nursing care at home are 
excluded from the scope of post hospitalization 
expenses.
 v.  Any Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses payable 
during the P olicy period shall not in aggr egate ex ceed 
the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum insured 
/cumulativ e bonus (if any) as specified in the Policy 
Schedule against this Benefit.
6.  Donor Expenses
 We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of 
an organ donor’s Hospitalization during the Policy Period 
for the harvesting of the organ donated to the Insured 
Person provided that:
 i.  The organ donation conforms to the Transplantation of 
Human Organs Act 1994 and the organ is for the use of 
the Insured Person;
 ii.  We will cover only those Medical Expenses incurred in 
respect of an organ donor as an in-patient in the 
Hospital.
 iii.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and 
Customar y Charges.
 iv.  Any Medical Expenses payable during the Policy 
period shall not in aggregate exceed the Annual Sum 
Insured and additional sum insured /cumulativ e bonus 
(if any) as specified in the Policy Schedule against this 
Benefit subject to an overall limit of  ` 10,00,000 only
 v.  We have accepted a claim under Section “Inpatient 
treatment” in respect of the Insured Person.
 We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit 
which arises directly or indirectly for or in connection with 
any of the following:
 i.  Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-
hospitalization Medical Expenses of the organ donor.
 ii.  Screening expenses of the organ donor.
 iii.  Any other Medical Expenses as a result of the 
harvesting from the organ donor.
 iv.  Costs directly or indirectly associated with the 
acquisition of the donor’s organ (other than 
hospitalisation costs involved).
 v.  Transplant of any organ/tissue where the transplant is 
experimental or investigational.
 vi.  Expenses related to organ transportation or 
preservation.
 vii.  Expenses incurred by an Insured Person as a donor.Golden Shield
7 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 viii.  Any other medical treatment or complication in respect 
of the donor, consequent to harvesting.
7.  Domiciliar y Hospitalization
 We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of 
the Domiciliary Hospitalization of the Insured Person 
during the Policy Period provided that :
 i.  The Domiciliary Hospitalization is for Medically 
Necessary Treatment .
 ii.  The Domiciliary Hospitalization commences and 
continues on the written advice of a Medical 
Practitioner .
 iii.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and 
Customar y Charges.
 iv.  The Domiciliar y Hospitalization continues for at least 3 
consecutiv e days in which case We will make payment 
under this Benefit in respect of Medical Expenses 
incurred from the first day of Domiciliary 
Hospitalization.
 v.  Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in aggregate 
exceed the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum 
insured /cumulativ e bonus (if any) as specified in the 
Policy Schedule against this Benefit.
 We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit 
which arises directly or indirectly from or in connection with 
any of the following:
 a)  Asthma, bronchitis, tonsillitis and upper respirator y 
tract infection including laryngitis and pharyngitis, 
cough and cold, influenza;
 b)  Arthritis, gout and rheumatism;
 c)  Ailments of spine/disc
 d)  Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome;
 e)  Any liver disease;
 f)  Peptic ulcer
 g) Diarrhea and all type of dysenteries, including 
gastroenteritis;
 h)  Diabetes mellitus and insipidus;
 i)  Epilepsy;
 j)  Hypertension;
 k)  Pyrexia of any origin
8.  Home Care Treatment
 We will cover the medical expenses incurred by the Insured 
person on home care treatment maximum up to 5% of 
Annual Sum Insured provided that :
 a.  The Medical Practitioner advices the Insured Person to 
undergo treatment at home
 b.  There is a continuous active line of treatment with 
monitoring of the health status by a medical 
practitioner for each day through the duration of the 
home care treatment .
 c.  Daily monitoring chart including records of the 
treatment duly signed by the treating doctor is 
maintained.Golden Shield
 d.  The condition of the Insured Person is expected to 
improve in a reasonable and foreseeable period of 
time.
 e.  Prior approval from Us has been taken. The Home care 
treatment is availed only on a cashless basis, subject to 
availability of our empanelled service provider(s). 
Kindly visit our website for cities/locations where such 
services are available.
 f.  Treatment availed is not categoriz ed under “AYUSH” or 
any form of non- allopathic treatment
 g.  Such treatment cannot be provided on outpatient basis
 However in case of unavailability of our empanelled service 
provider in the insured person’s location, in case the insured 
person intends to avail the services of non-network 
provider and claims for reimbursement , a prior approval 
from Us needs to be taken before availing such services.
 In case the insured person breaches the conditions of 
approval or fails to take the prior written approval from Us, 
we are not liable to settle any claim under this section.
 For the purpose of this benefit , Home car e treatment shall 
include:
 a.  Diagnostic tests underwent at home as advised by 
medical practitioner
 b.  Medicines prescribed in writing by a medical 
practitioner
 c.  Consultation charges of the medical practitioner
 d.  Nursing charges if advised by the medical practitioner
 Any expenses payable during the Policy period shall not in 
aggregate ex ceed the Annual Sum Insur ed and additional 
sum insured /cumulativ e bonus (if any) as specified in the.
9.  In Patient AYUSH Hospitalization
 We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of 
the Insured Person’s AYUSH Treatment during the Policy 
Period up to the Annual Sum Insured specified in the Policy 
Schedule provided that:
 i.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and 
Customar y Charges.
 ii.  The Insured Person is Hospitalized for AYUSH 
Treatment at a AYUSH hospital or an AYUSH Day-care 
centre.
 iii.  The Insured Person’s Hospitalization commenc es and 
continues on the written advice of the treating Medical 
Practitioner .
 iv.  Any Medical Expenses payable during the Policy 
period shall not in aggregate exceed the Annual Sum 
Insured and additional sum insured /cumulativ e bonus 
(if any) as specified in the Policy Schedule against this 
Benefit.
 v.  This Benefit will be provided on a reimbursement and/ 
or on cashless basis where ever applicable.
 We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit 
which arises directly or indirectly for or in connection with 
any of the following:
8 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Golden Shield
 i.  Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-
hospitalization Medical Expenses.
 ii.  Any expenses incurred for the purpose of evaluation or 
investigation.
10.  Domestic road ambulanc e cover
 We will cover the expenses incurred on road ambulanc e 
services which are offered by a healthcar e or ambulanc e 
service provider and which have been used during the 
Policy Period to transfer the Insured Person to the nearest 
Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for the 
provision of Emergency Care, provided that:
 •  Our maximum liability under this Benefit for every 
claim arising during the Policy Year will be restricted to 
1% of the Annual Sum insured maximum up to
`10,000;
 •  We have accepted a claim under “Inpatient treatment” 
in respect of the Insured Person for the same 
Accident/Illness for which road ambulanc e services 
were availed.
 •  This Benefit includes and is limited to the cost of the 
transpor tation of the Insured Person:
  a)  From the place of injury/illness to the nearest 
hospital
  b)  To the nearest Hospital with higher medical 
facilities which is prepared to admit the Insured 
Person and provide the necessary medical 
services if such medical services cannot 
satisfactorily be provided at a Hospital where the 
Insured Person is situated, and only if that 
transpor tation has been prescribed in writing by a 
Medical Practitioner and is for Medically 
Necessary Treatment .
  c)  From a Hospital to the nearest diagnostic centre 
during the course of Hospitalization for advanced 
diagnostic treatment in circumstanc es where such 
facility is not available in the existing Hospital.
 •  The ambulance / service provider providing the 
services be a registered provider with road traffic 
authority.
 Any expenses in relation to transpor tation of the Insured 
Person from Hospital to the Insured Person’s residence 
while transferring an Insured Person after he/she has been 
discharged from the Hospital are not payable under this 
Benefit.
11.  Air Ambulanc e
 We will cover the expenses up to the Annual sum insured 
incurred on air ambulanc e services in respect of an Insured 
Person which are offered by a healthcare or an air 
ambulanc e service provider and which have been used 
during the Policy Period to transfer the Insured Person to 
the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for 
the provision of Emergency Care, provided that:
 a.  It is for a life threatening emergency health condition/ s 
of the Insured Person which requires immediate and rapid ambulanc e transpor tation from the place where 
the Insured Person is situated at the time of requiring 
Emergency Care to a hospital provided that the 
transpor tation is for Medically Necessary Treatment , is 
certified in writing b y a Medical P ractitioner , and road 
ambulanc e services cannot be provided.
 b.  Such air ambulanc e providing the services, should be 
duly licensed to operate as such by a competent 
government Authorit y.
 c.  This cover is limited to transpor tation from the area of 
emergency to the nearest Hospital only;
 d.  We will not cover:
  a.  Any transpor tation from one Hospital to another;
  b.  Any transpor tation of the Insured Person from 
Hospital to the Insured Person’s residence after 
he/she has been discharged from the Hospital
  c.  Any transpor tation or air ambulanc e expenses 
incurred outside the geographical scope of India.
 e.  We have accepted a claim under Inpatient treatment in 
respect of the Insured Person for the same 
Accident/Illness for which air ambulanc e services were 
availed.
 f.  We shall not be liable if Medically Necessary Treatment 
can be provided at the Hospital where the Insured 
Person is situated at the time of requiring Emergency 
Care.
12. Base Co-payment
 This policy will be subject to 50% base co-payment and 
He/She shall be liable to pay 50% of admissible claim 
amount of each and every claim. Base Co-payment once 
chosen cannot be changed mid-term. Modification of co-
payment may happen only during renewal subject to 
underwriting. In case, base co-payment is reduced during 
renewal, fresh waiting periods shall be applicable on the 
modified portion of base co-payment .
 i.  Base Co-payment shall be applicable to all benefits 
under the policy except any benefits availed under 
Care management program, Care management plus 
program, preventive health check-up,.
 ii.  Base Co-payment shall not be applicable in case 
voluntary deductible has been opted for.
13.  Cumulativ e Bonus/ Additional Sum Insured
 We will provide a Cumulativ e Bonus of 10% of the Annual 
Sum insured at the end of each Policy Year if the expiring 
Policy has been claim free and is continuously renewed 
with Us. The Cumulativ e Bonus will not be accumulated for 
more than 100% of the Annual Sum insured under any 
circumstanc es.
 i.  In case where the policy is on a floater basis the 
cumulative bonus will be on floater basis and for 
individual policy the same will be on an individual 
basis.
 ii.  In case where the policy is on a floater basis, the 
cumulativ e bonus will be accrued only if no claims have 
been made in respect of all Insured Person(s) in the 
expiring policy period.
 iii.  In a floater policy as specified in the Policy Schedule, 
the Cumulativ e Bonus so accrued during the previous 
Policy Year(s) will only be available to those Insured 
Person(s) who were insured in previous Policy Year(s) 
and continue to be insured with Us in the subsequent 
Policy Year(s).
 iv.  Cumulativ e Bonus will not be added if the Policy is not 
renewed with Us by the end of the Grace Period.
 v.  Cumulative bonus can be utilised only when the 
Annual Sum Insured is completely exhausted.
 vi.  If the Policy Period is two or three years, any 
Cumulativ e Bonus that has accrued for the first/second 
Policy Year will be credited at the end of the first/second 
Policy Year as the case may be and will be available for 
any claims made in the subsequent Policy Year.
 vii.  If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered 
on an individual basis as specified in the Policy 
Schedule and there is an accumulated Cumulativ e 
Bonus for each Insured Person under the expiring 
policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed 
with Us on a floater policy basis as specified in the 
Policy Schedule then the Cumulative Bonus to be 
carried forward for credit in such Renewed Policy shall 
be the lowest among all the Insured Persons.
 viii.  In case of floater policies where Insured Persons 
Renew their expiring policy with Us by splitting the 
Annual Sum Insured in to individual policies the 
Cumulative Bonus of the expiring policy shall be 
apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the 
proportion of the Annual Sum Insured of each 
Renewed Policy as detailed in table below.
9 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Golden Shield
Annual 
Floater S um 
Insured
20 L acFloater 
policy split 
to individual 
policies with 
Annual Sum 
Insured of 
10 Lacs eachRevised 
Annual Sum 
Insured of 
each 
individual 
policy
10  LacRevised 
Accumulated 
Cumulativ e 
bonus/ 
Additional 
Sum Insured 
of each 
individual 
policy
5  LacAccumulate
d Cumulativ e 
bonus/ 
Additional 
Sum Insured 
(after 5 claim 
free years)
10  Lac
Annual  Sum 
Insured
20 L acAnnual Sum 
Insured 
reduced to 
` 10 LacsRevised 
Annual S um 
Insured
10  LacRevised 
Accumulated 
Cumulativ e 
bonus/ 
Additional 
Sum Insured
5  LacAccumulated 
Cumulativ e 
bonus/ 
Additional 
Sum Insured 
(after 5 claim 
free years)
10  Lac ix. If the Annual Sum Insured has been reduced at the time 
of Renewal, the applicable Cumulativ e Bonus shall be 
reduced in the same proportion to the Annual Sum 
Insured as detailed in table below x. If the Annual Sum Insured under the Policy has been 
increased at the time of Renewal the Cumulativ e Bonus 
shall be calculated on the Annual Sum Insured of the 
last completed Policy Year.
 xi. In the event of a Claim under the Policy during any 
subsequent Policy Year, the accrued cumulativ e bonus 
shall not be reduced. 
14.  Reset Benefit
 We will reset the Annual Sum insured up to 100% of the 
Annual Sum insured unlimited times, for all future claims 
within the same policy not related to the illness / disease / 
injury for which a claim has been paid for the same insured 
person in a Policy Year as stated in the Policy Schedule, 
provided that: 
 i.  The Annual Sum insured including additional sum 
insured /Cumulativ e Bonus (if any) in respect of the 
Insured Person is insufficient as a result of previous 
claims paid in that Policy Year. 
 ii.  The total amount of reset will not exceed the Annual 
Sum Insured for that policy year. 
 iii.  The Reset Benefit will be applied only if the claim is 
made and admissible under “Inpatient Treatment” or 
“Daycare Procedure”.
 iv.  The Reset Benefit will not be triggered for the first claim 
made during the Policy Year.
 v.  The Reset benefit will be triggered only once and not 
unlimited times for all future claims within the same 
policy which are related to the illness/disease/injur y for 
which a claim has already been paid/registered for the 
same insured person.
 vi.  For individual policies, reset Sum Insured will be 
available on individual basis whereas for floater 
policies, it will be available on floater basis.
 vii.  For any single claim during a Policy Year , the maximum 
claim amount payable shall not exceed the sum of
  •  The Annual Sum insured;
  •  additional sum insured /Cumulativ e Bonus;
 viii. The Reset Benefit will not be available for an Illness / 
Injury or related complications including but not limited 
to any relapse within 45 days in respect of which a 
claim has been paid in that Policy Year for the same 
Insured Person.
 ix.  Any unutilized Reset Benefit will not be carried forward 
to any subsequent Policy Years.
 x.  During a Policy Year, the aggregate claim amount 
payable, shall not exceed the sum of:
  •  The Annual Sum Insured
  •  additional sum insured /Cumulativ e Bonus
  •  Reset Sum Insured
 •  The Network Provider /Health Service Provider shall be 
assigned by Us post receiving Insured Person’s request 
to avail a health check-up under this Benefit. 
 •  Utilisation of this preventive health check-up will not 
impact the Annual Sum Insured or eligibility for 
additional sum insured /cumulativ e Bonus. 
 •  Un-utilised health check-up package will not be carried 
forward to the next policy year and it will be the Insured 
Person’s choice and responsibilit y to utilise the same 
with in the designated policy period. We shall not be 
liable to provide any reminders or notifications for the 
same.  
 •  In-case of long term policies (2 year or 3 years), the 
preventive health check-up package for all the policy 
years shall be provided together in the first policy year 
itself. It shall be the responsibilit y of the Insured Person 
to preserve the same and undergo the check-ups 
during the designated policy years.  
 Please Note:  
 •   We shall not hold any responsibilit y towards any loss 
or damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion, 
advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors, omissions 
and representations made by the Medical Practitioner / 
Healthcar e professional. 
 •  Choosing the services under this Benefit is purely upon 
the customer ’s own discretion and at own risk. 
 •  The Insured Person should seek assistanc e from a 
health care professional when interpreting and 
applying them to the Insured person’s individual 
circumstanc es. If the Insured person has any concerns 
about His/ her health, He/ She may consult His/ her 
general practitioner .   
18. Incentives associated with Vaccination against 
pneumoc occal disease
 We will provide an additional 2.5% discount on premium 
(fresh or renewal) for Insured Person(s) who have taken the 
Pneumococcal vaccine or its equivalent vaccine which 16.  Enhanced Annual Sum insured for Road Traffic Accidents
 If the insured person meets with a Road Traffic Accident 
resulting in in-patient hospitalization, then the Annual Sum 
Insured shall be doubled subject to the following: 
 •  It is declared and proven that the insured person was 
taking due safety precautions such as use of seat-belt/ 
helmet/ following road traffic signals and was either 
riding as pillion rider in a two wheeler or travelling in a 
four wheeler at the time of accident as evidenced by 
Police record and Hospital record. 
 •  The enhanced(doubled) Sum Insured shall be available 
only once during the policy period. 
 •  The enhanced (double) Sum Insured shall be available 
only after exhaustion of the annual sum insured. 
 •  The enhanced Sum Insured can be utilized only for that 
particular hospitalization following the Road Traffic 
Accident .
 •  Reset benefit shall not trigger for claims under this 
cover.  
 •  This benefit shall not be applicable for day care 
treatment. 
 •  The unutilized balance of enhanced (doubled) sum 
insured for road traffic accidents cannot be carried 
forward for the remaining policy period or for renewal. 
 •  Claims under this benefit will reduce the Cumulativ e 
bonus/ additional sum insured
17.  Preventive health check-up
 Insured Persons can avail a preventive health check-up as 
per our pre- defined package only at our network providers 
or empanelled health service providers anytime during the 
Policy period subject to the below conditions : 
 •  This benefit can be availed only on cashless basis and 
is limited to once a year per Insured Person. 
 •  This benefit can be availed through our mobile 
application or via utilisation of health check-up 
coupons provided with the policy kit 
10 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Golden Shield
15.  Sub-limits applicable
 The expenses payable during the entire policy period for treatment of the following diseases/ conditions (either as a day care or 
as an in-patient exceeding 24hrs of admission in the hospital) shall be maximum up to the amount mentioned in the table below;
Procedures/Medical C onditions/ Ailments/DiseasesAnnual Sum Insur ed
>20L
Treatment of cataract Up to  25,000/ ey e ` Up to  50,000/ ey e ` Up to  75,000/ ey e `
Treatment of each and ev ery ailment /procedure mentioned belo w10L/15L/20L 3L/4L/5L
Treatment of c erebrovascular and cardio vascular disorders
Treatment /surgeries f or cancer(including chemo/ radio/oral)
Treatment of other renal c omplications and disorders
Treatment f or breakage of long bones/ Joint replac ements
Robotic surgeries f or any ailment /condition/ disease` 2,00,000 ` 3,50,000 ` 5,00,000
` 1,00,000 ` 1,75,000 ` 2,50,000
Sub-limits will include the expenses incurred on pre hospitalisation and post hospitalisation expenses
Golden Shield
11 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223specialist or a general physician will have to be 
borne by the Insured Person. 
  •  We shall not be liable for any discrepancy in the 
information provided under this Benefit. 
  •  Choosing the services under this Benefit is purely 
upon the customer’s own discretion and at own risk. 
  •  *The proposer should seek assistance from a 
health care professional when interpreting and 
applying them to the Insured person’s individual 
circumstances. If the Insured person has any 
concerns about His/ her health, He/ She may 
consult His/ her general practitioner .  We shall not 
hold any responsibility towards any loss or 
damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion, 
advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors, 
omissions and representations made by the 
Medical Practitioner / Healthcar e professional. 
 2.  Second E-opinion for Critical Illness
  We shall arrange E-opinion on a cashless basis from 
our empanelled Medical Practitioners in case the 
Insured Person is diagnosed with any of the below 
listed critical Illnesses during the Policy Period, and at 
his/her sole discretion chooses to avail an E-opinion 
subject to the below mentioned conditions. 
  •  The E-opinion will be arranged on cashless basis 
and the insured person will not have to bear any 
expenses on the same.  
  •  The E-opinion will be based only on the 
information and documentation provided to Us 
(which will be shared with the Medical 
Practitioner ) and it should not be construed to 
constitute medical advice and/or substitute the 
Insured Person's visit/ consultation to an 
independent Medical Practitioner/Healthcare 
professional. 
  •  This E-opinion can be availed only once during the 
Policy Period for the same illness.  
  •  Appointments to avail this E-opinion may be 
requested through Our Website or Our mobile 
application or through calling Our call centre on 
Our toll free number. 
  •  The E-opinion provided under this Benefit shall be 
limited to the listed critical Illnesses and will not be 
valid for any medico legal purposes. 
  •  We do not assume any liability towards any loss or 
damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion, 
advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors, 
omissions and representations made by the 
Medical Practitioner. 
 List of Critical Illness for which Second E-opinion may be 
requested
 Heart and vascular conditions
 1.  Myocardial Infarction  
 2.  Refractory heart failure  
 3.  Cardiomyopathy helps prevent pneumoc occal disease. All the members 
covered under  thepolicy should have be vaccinated in the 
past one year (1 year) from policy start date to avail this 
discount. i.e. if policy start date is 1st January 2022, all 
insured persons under the policy should have been 
vaccinated against Pneumococcal disease in the period 
from 1st January 2021 to 31st December 2021. This 
discount shall be provided lifetime as long as the insured 
person continues to renew this policy. 
Mandator y Extension:
19.  Care Management Program
  In consideration of payment of additional premium, the 
insured person can avail benefits of the Care Management 
Program. The Care Management Program aims to provide 
solutions which will solve everyday challenges/issues 
faced by You, promote holistic wellbeing and empower You 
to lead independent and enriching lives.  
 Our Care management program focusses on providing You 
with assistanc e and support in case of any challenge but at 
the same time equipping you for the future. Our endeavour 
is to promote longevity, productivit y and incentivise You for 
your healthy behaviour which will enable dignified living. 
 The Insur ed Person shall hav e access to a host of benefits 
under the Care management program on downloading and 
registering on our mobile application. This activity is to 
ensure adequate utilization of services offered and to 
redeem the wellbeing points awarded. 
 1.  Tele Consultation(s)
  We will arrange consultations and recommendations 
for routine health issues by a qualified Medical 
Practitioner or health care professional. For the 
purpose of this benefit Telephonic/ Virtual consultation 
shall mean consultation provided by a qualified 
Medical Practitioner or Health care professional 
through various mode of communication like audio, 
video, online portal, chat or mobile application. The 
services provided under this Benefit will be made 
available subject to the terms and conditions, and in 
the manner prescribed below: 
  • The Medical Practitioner may suggest / 
recommend / prescribe over the counter 
medications based on the inf ormation pr ovided, if 
required on a case to case basis. However, the 
services under this Benefit should not be construed 
to constitute medical advice and/or substitute the 
Insured Person's visit/ consultation to an 
independent Medical Practitioner/Healthcare 
professional* . 
  •  There shall be no maximum limit on the count of 
tele-consultations that can be availed by the 
Insured Person in a policy year. 
  •  This service will be available 24 hours a day, and 
365 days in a year. 
  • We/Medical Practitioner /Healthcar e professional 
may refer the Insured Person to another specialist 
or a general physician (outside of our empanelled 
network), if required and the charges for such 
Golden Shield
12 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223  4.  E-Counselling
  We will offer e-counselling session(s) with a 
Psychologist via our mobile application for providing 
assistanc e in dealing with issues such as but not 
limited to personal and lifestyle imbalanc e, anxiety, 
depression, sleep disorders, stress and problems 
related to psychological/ mental illness/ psychiatric and 
psychosomatic disorders.
  Maximum of 12 sessions will be provided per insured 
person per policy period.
  The e-counseling sessions shall be availed only 
through virtual modes of chat via our mobile 
application.  
 5.  Health Management Program  
  The Health Management Program has been designed 
to ensure a regular monitoring of the Insur ed Person’s 
health and timely inter vention and a c oncrete plan f or 
corrective measures in case of any decline in the health 
status of the Insured Person.
   The Health Coach shall guide and motivate the Insured 
Person to follow the customised Health management 
program designed for them to achieve their health and 
fitness goals.
   As a part of the Health Management Program, the 
insured person can avail the following benefits
  a.  Care Calls
   All insured persons shall receive care calls to check 
up on their well-being and safety by our health 
coach who understand the issues surrounding 
senior individuals. The insured person(s) will be 
encouraged to express their concerns surrounding 
their well-being (if any) on these calls so that the 
health coach can address them later.
  b.  Goal based inc entives on outc ome of P reventive 
health check-up
   Monitoring of one’s health status remains an 
important step towards becoming more self-
aware of one’s medical / health conditions.
   The insured person shall be subjected to a mid- 
term assessment via a Wellbeing Risk Assessment 
[WRA] which will include outcome of certain 
laboratory tests and questionnaire based 
assessment covering aspects of lifestyle, current 
medical history & family history.
   The assessment will be carried out using a 
telephonic/ digital connect with the Health Coach.
   The health coach will encourage the insured 
person to undergo certain laborator y tests (as 
detailed in Table A) and we will incentivise the 
Insured Person in case of favourable findings of the 
laborator y tests.
   The insured person will have to undergo the below 
mentioned laborator y tests as a part of the mid-
term assessment from our empanelled diagnostic  Lung Conditions
 4.  End stage lung Failure
 5.  Primary(Idiopathic ) pulmonar y Hypertension 
 Liver conditions 
 6.  End stage liver Failure 
 Neuro/ spinal & psychiatric disease
 7.  Multiple sclerosis with Persisting symptoms  
 8.  Motor neuron disease with Permanent symptoms  
 9.  Permanent paralysis of limbs  
 10.  Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms 
 11.  Coma of specified severity  
 12.  Alzheimer ’s Disease before age of 50 years   
 13.  Parkinson ’s disease before age of 50 years  
 14.  Apallic syndrome  
 15.  Benign brain tumour  
 16.  Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD)
 17.  Major head trauma
 Renal diseases
 18.  Kidney failure requiring regular dialysis
 19.  Medullar y cystic disease 
 Musculosk eletal diseases 
 20.  Muscular dystrophy
 21.  Poliomyelitis 
 Bleeding disorders
 22.  Aplastic Anaemia 
 Auto immune diseases
 23.  Systemic Lupus Erythematous with renal involvement  
 24.  Myasthenia gravis  
 25.  Scleroderma
 26. Good pastures syndrome with lung or renal 
involvement 
 27.  Blindness  
 28.  Deafness
 29.  Cancer of specified severity
 30.  Third Degree Burns
 31.  Loss of speech  
 32.  Loss of limbs
 33.  Loss of Independent Existenc e 
 3.  Diet and Nutrition e-consultation  
  We will offer You diet and nutrition e-consultation on a 
virtual platform via our mobile application to help you 
achieve your weight and health management goals.
  Maximum of 12 sessions will be provided per insured 
person per policy period.
  The e-consultation shall be availed only through virtual 
modes of chat via our mobile application.
Golden Shield
13 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223person 250 wellness points. Each yoga session/ meditation 
session must last 30 minutes or more and the maximum 
wellness points that can be accrued under this task is 1500 
per insured person per policy year.
 Please Note: The insured persons can join a virtual 
yoga/meditation class or visit an actual yoga/meditation 
centre. The expenses associated with the class 
fees/membership fees/tutor or instructor fees etc. will 
have to be borne by the insured person. Proof of payment 
of fees and certificate of completion of sessions will have 
to be provided to us in order for insured person to earn the 
wellness points.
 Alternately , in case the Insured Person is keen to achieve 
targeted steps instead of participation in yoga 
sessions/ meditation sessions, we will award 250 wellness 
points per month provided the insured person takes 4000+ 
steps per day for atleast 15 days in a month. The maximum 
wellness points that can be accrued by achieving targeted 
steps is 1500 per insured person per policy year.
 Our mobile application will hav e to be do wnloaded within 
30 days of the policy start date to avail the benefit as the 
average step count completed by an Insured person would 
be monitored on this mobile application.
 Each wellness point will be valued at INR 0.20. Wellness 
points so earned can be redeemed against any services 
under disc ounts as mentioned in “ discounts on ser vices or 
products” on our mobile application.
 Wellness points Maximum wellness  Rupee Value
 accumulated  points awarded per of Accumulated
   person per policy year wellness points  
 Outcome of 1500 300 
 Preventive health 
 check-ups
 Participation in Yoga / 1500 300 
 Meditation / Completion 
 of Targeted steps 
 Total 3000 600
7. Medical Vault
 The insured person can upload His/Her health records in 
our mobile application so as to protect them from loss or 
theft. These health records can then be viewed as per need 
and convenience of the insured person.
 By availing this service, the Insured person agrees and has 
no objection to the health records being maintained with Us 
for internal use only.
8.  Health Assistanc e (HAT) 
 HAT shall assist the Insured Person in understanding their 
health condition better by providing answers to any queries 
related to health service providers
 The services provided under this shall include:
 •  Identifying a Physician/ Specialist 
 •  Availability of hospital beds/COVID hubs etc. 
 •  Providing guidance on engaging attendants or nurses 
 •  Facilitation with respect to arrangement of mobility 
aids, daily living aids, medical equipment etc.  centres and will be guided by the health coach for 
the same.
   In case the insured person is desirous of 
undergoing laborator y tests at a diagnostic centre 
of their choice which is not empanelled with us, the 
insured person will have to bear the charges 
associated with the actual costs of the mid-term 
assessment diagnostic tests/ visit charges / 
collection charges etc.
   The insured person will also have to provide us 
with the laboratory reports of the below 
mentioned medical tests/inv estigations conducted 
within the policy period for Us to award the 
wellness points. 
 Table A
 Medical Tests Favorable  Findings that need
   findings improvement
 Glycosylated  < 6% >6 and up to7%
 Haemoglobin (HbA1c)
 Low Density  < 100 mg/dl >100 and < or 
 Lipoprotein (LDL)  = 190 mg/dl
 High Density > or = 40 mg/dl > 20 mg/dl and
 Lipoprotein (HDL)   <40 mg/dl
 Serum cholesterol < or = 200mg/dl >200 and < or
    =300 mg/dl
 Serum Triglycerides <or = 150 mg/dl > 150 and <
    = 250mg/dl
 S. Creatinine < or = 1.3 mg/dl > 1.3 mg/dl
 The insured person shall be awarded wellness points as per table 
B for each laborator y test mentioned below in case the findings of 
the laborator y test are favourable as detailed in Table A.
 Table B
 Medical Tests Wellness points awarded in 
    case of favourable findings
 Glycosylated Haemoglobin (HbA1c) 500
 Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) 200
 High Density Lipoprotein (HDL) 200
 Serum cholesterol  200
 Serum Triglycerides 200
 Serum Creatinine 200
 Total 1500
 The maximum wellness points that can be awarded under 
this activity is restricted to 1500 wellness points per insured 
person per policy year.
 Each wellness point will be valued at INR 0.20. Wellness 
points so earned can be redeemed against deals and 
discounts on purchase of medicines from our empanelled 
pharmacies or undergoing recommended diagnostic tests 
from our empanelled diagnostic centres etc. as listed on our 
mobile application.
6. Participation in Yoga/Meditation Sessions/ Completion of 
Targeted Steps
 The Insured Person can earn wellness points by 
participating in yoga sessions or meditation sessions 
aimed at maintaining physical and mental Wellness. 
Participation and successful completion of 10 yoga/ 
meditation sessions in a month will award the insured 
14 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Golden Shield
 •  Scheduling an appointment with any Medical 
Practitioner empanelled with Us 
 •  Scheduling appointments for a second opinion 
 •  Providing suitable options with respect to Hospitals as 
well as providing assistance in Cashless facility, 
wherever applicable. 
 •  Scheduling appointments from diagnostic labs 
empanelled with us.
 •  Providing information, assistanc e and  facilitation on 
door step delivery of medicines 
 •  Providing preventive information on ailments  
 •  Providing guidanc e on post Hospitalization car e, such 
as Physiotherap y/ Nursing at home. 
 Please note that services provided under this Benefit are 
solely for assistanc e, and should not be construed to be a 
substitute for a visit/ consultation to an independent 
Medical Practitioner . Our role is limited to that of facilitation 
and Health Assistance services will not include the charges 
for any independent Medical Practitioner/nutritionist/ 
charges incurred on diagnostics/ consulted on HAT’s 
recommendation, and such charges are to be borne by the 
Insured Person.
 For all facilitation services provided under this cover, our 
role shall be limited to assistanc e only and the charges and 
expenses associated with the actual service shall have  to 
be borne by the insured person.
 This service is available on our mobile application or by 
calling on 040-66274205 (please note that this number is 
subject to change) from 8am to 8pm from Monday to 
Saturday except public holidays.
 By availing this service, the Insured person agrees and has 
no objection to the health records being maintained with Us 
for internal use only. 
 While deciding to obtain the above services, the  Insured 
person(s) expressly notes and agrees that it is entirely for 
them to decide whether to obtain these services and also to 
decide the use (if any) to which these services are to be put 
for.
9.  Ambulanc e Assistanc e 
 We will facilitate ground medical transportation by a 
Service provider to transpor t the Insured Person to the 
nearest Hospital or any clinic or nursing home for medically 
necessary treatment subject to availability of services in 
that particular city/ location. Kindly visit our website for 
updated list of cities/ locations where the services are 
provided. 
 1.  The services under this Benefit are subject to the 
following conditions: 
  •  The medical transpor tation is for a life threatening 
health condition of the Insured Person which 
requires immediate and rapid transpor tation to the 
Hospital; as certified in writing by the Medical 
practitioner
  •  The Insured Person is in India and the treatment is 
in India only;   •  The ambulanc e service is availed within the same 
city 
  •  This is an assistanc e service and the expenses for 
the same will have to be borne by the insured 
person or can be claimed under domestic road 
ambulanc e cover( if inpatient treatment claim is 
found to be admissible ) 
 Process to avail Ambulanc e Assistanc e: 
 a)  On calling Our helpline number provided below, Our 
trained customer service executive (CSE) will ask the 
Insured person relevant questions to assess the 
situation.
 b)  The call may be redirected to a qualified Medical 
Practitioner in order to evaluate the requirement for an 
ambulanc e with Advanced Life Support based on the 
Insured Person’s condition.
 c)  The below mentioned details are to be made available 
for availing the services:  
  1.  UHID of Insured Person, as provided on the Health 
Card. 
  2.  Contact number of the Insured Person
  3.  Location of Insured Person 
 How to Call an Ambulanc e? (Via Call)
Call 18001028136
to reach the 
Emergency 
Response CentreAn IVRS will ask 
you to select  option 
1or 2 depending on 
requirement .
Dial 1 for Medical 
Ambulanc e 
ServicesCall will be 
answered by an 
CSE & details like 
name, UHID, nature 
of emergency will 
be asked
Emergency 
Ambulanc e 
Transport 
will arrivePatient will be 
taken to the nearest 
hospital as per the 
predefined hospital 
network chartDoctor may 
accompany patient 
in the ambulanc e 
if required
Click on emergency 
icon & place requestAmbulanc e 
pick up & drop 
the patient to 
hospital / health 
facilityCSE does 
feedback Call
Customer service 
executive connects 
with medical teamThe medical team 
provides with 
continued 
necessary 
assistanc e on call
Doctor understand 
situation & advices 
on emergency Care 
/ Selection of 
ambulanc eCSE dispatch the 
ambulanc e to 
desired location & 
provide necessary 
details
Golden Shield
15 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V01222310. Discounts on services / products
 We shall only facilitate the Insured Person in availing 
discounts on services/ products including but not limited to 
investigations/ diagnostic tests/ laborator y tests / health 
supplements/ medical equipment / homecare services / 
virtual health & wellness sessions/ AYUSH products / 
Fitness & wellness related activities & products etc.  at our 
empanelled diagnostic centres, drugs / medicines ordered 
from pharmacies etc. offered by our network providers/ 
health service providers. These discounts can be viewed on 
our mobile application and one can redeem the wellness 
points earned from Care Management Program (either 
through favourable findings on health check-up or 
participation in Yoga/ meditations sessions/ achieving 
targeted steps per month) for availing discounts as per 
product terms and conditions and subject to availability.
 Terms and Conditions for Care Management Program
 • There shall be no minimum wellness points limit for 
redemption against health related deals and discounts 
offered on our mobile application.
 • The Insured Person(s) can choose to carry forward the 
wellness points for 3 years, in case they do not wish to 
redeem the same provided the policy is continuously 
renewed without any break. The wellness points so 
accrued shall have to be redeemed at the end of the 3rd 
Policy year.
 • The Insured Person shall notify Us and submit the 
relevant documents, reports, receipts as and when 
required by us within 60 days of undertaking any 
activity for us to reward appropriate wellness points.
 • In case of expiry of policy and the policy not being 
renewed, the accrued wellness points may be carried 
forward for a period not exceeding three months.
 • There shall not be any cash reimbursement or 
redemption available against the wellness points 
accumulated by an Insured Person. 
 • We or Our Health Service Providers or Our Network 
Providers do not warrant the validity, accuracy, 
completeness, safety, quality, or applicabilit y of the 
content or anything said or written or any suggestions 
provided in the course of providing the wellbeing 
services.
 • We do not accept any liability towards quality of the 
services made available by our network providers/ 
health service providers and are not liable for any 
defects or deficiencies on their part.
 • Availability of all Services under the care management 
program is subject to availability of Health Service 
provider at the requested location.
 • We, Our group entities, or affiliates, their respectiv e 
directors, officers, employees, agents, vendors, shall 
not be responsible for or liable for, any actions, claims, 
demands, losses, damages, costs, charges and 
expenses which an Insur ed Person may claim to hav e 
suffered, sustained or incurred, as a result of any advice or information obtained by way of the wellness 
program or any actions chosen by the Insured Person 
on the basis of such advice or information.
 • The care management program offered is subject to 
revisions based on the insurance regulatory 
framework from time to time.
Optional Covers 
1.  Claim Protector 
 In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, 
the insured person can avail the benefit as mentioned 
under claim protector. If a claim has been accepted under 
the inpatient hospitalization cover, then the items which 
are not payable under the claim as per the List of Excluded 
items released by IRDAI that is related to the particular 
claim will become payable. The maximum claim pay-out 
under this benefit shall be limited to Annual Sum Insured 
under your policy.  
 Base Co-payment as opted by the Insured Person in the 
policy shall be applicable for this cover  
2.  Modification of Base Co-payment 
 In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, 
The insured person will have the option to reduce his base 
co-payment from 50% to 40% or 30% or 20% and He/She 
shall be liable to pay the percentage (%) of admissible claim 
amount of each and every claim.  
 Base Co-payment once chosen cannot be changed mid-
term. Modification of co-payment may happen only 
during renewal subject to underwriting.  In case, base co-
payment is reduced during renewal, fresh waiting periods 
shall be applicable on the modified portion of base co-
payment. 
3.  Voluntary Deductible
 In case the Insured person has opted for a voluntary 
deductible, as specified in the Policy Schedule, the 
Deductible will be applicable on aggregate basis for all 
Hospitalization expenses during the Policy Year before it 
becomes payable by Us, subject to terms, conditions and 
exclusions of the Policy. The voluntary deductible option 
available will be 20% of Annual Sum Insured opted by 
You. 
 i.  In case voluntary deductible has been opted for, base 
co-payment shall not be chosen. Zone based co-
payment shall be applicable in case medically 
necessary treatment (Except medically necessary 
treatment for road traffic accidents) has been taken in 
a zone higher (Zone A being the highest followed by 
Zone B and then Zone C) than the zone for which 
premium has been paid on issuance of the policy. 
 ii.  The deductible will apply on individual basis in case of 
individual policy and on floater basis in case of floater 
policy.
 iii.  Deductible once chosen cannot be changed mid-term. 
Modification of deductible may happen only during 
renewal subject to underwriting.
Golden Shield
16 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V0122234. Care management Plus Program
 In consideration of payment of additional premium, Insured 
Person can avail the benefits associated with care 
management Plus Program as detailed below
 1. Health Care Professional
  All insured persons shall be assigned a dedicated 
Health Care Professional who will act as a first point of 
contact for any service need. The Health Care 
professional will be a certified nutritionist who will 
assist the Insured person(s) with a personalised diet 
depending on their health concerns. The Health Care 
Professional shall encourage and promote optimal 
health and assist on matters pertaining to fitness, diet 
and nutrition and wellbeing concerns faced by the 
insured persons. He/She will encourage two way 
communication, provide reminders on healthy habits 
and reassure the insured person in times of need. 
  The health care professional will also play a significant 
role in being the primary point of contact to the Insured 
Person. The Health Care professional will 
  • On-boar d the Insured Person on to our mobile 
application
  • Educate the Insured Person on the pertinent 
features of our mobile application such as but not 
limited to availing Tele-consultations, utilising the 
preventive health check-up, conducting the mid-
term assessment, educating about health 
assistanc e services, redemption of wellness points 
etc.
  • Give care calls to the Insured Person to understand 
insured person’s issues surrounding fitness, diet & 
nutrition and wellbeing issues if any and propose 
solutions for the same 
 2. Update to family members- 
  As a part of the enhanced wellness features, your 
family members will be regularly updated about your 
health and adherence to prescribed diet(as prescribed 
under the diet and nutrition e-consultation benefit 
under Care management program) via messaging 
platform(s) so that they can motivate and encourage 
and participate in your efforts to achieve your 
healthcar e goals. 
  The above update shall be provided only on Your 
consent and after You provide us with contact details of 
family member who wishes to receive timely updates 
about your health and diet regime. 
 3. Out-patient consultations 
  We shall cover the Medical Expenses incurred during 
the Policy period for out-patient consultations from a 
General Medical Practitioner or Specialist Medical 
Practitioner or Super Specialist Medical practitioner or 
AYUSH medical practitioner in relation to any Illness 
contracted or Injury suffered by the Insured Person 
during the Policy period subject to the overall 
maximum number of 4 consultations in a Policy Year. These services shall be provided through our 
Empanelled Health Service Provider subject to 
availability at the time of appointment .
  This benefit shall also include e-consultation given by a 
General Medical Practitioner or Specialist or Super 
Specialist Medical Practitioner or AYUSH medical 
practitioner through a virtual mode of communication 
such as but not limited to chat, email, video, online 
portal, or mobile application.
  Physiotherap y sessions shall be excluded from the 
scope of this benefit.
  Counselling availed for psychiatric ailments or mental 
health issues shall be excluded from the scope of this 
benefit but it shall be covered in E-Counseling (section 
d. Base Cover. 18.4) as per the section d. Benefits 
covered under the policy.
 4. Routine Diagnostics and Minor Procedure cover
  We shall cover medical expenses incurred for 
outpatient diagnostic tests recommended by Medical 
Practitioner under our cashless network available in 
the mobile application in relation to any Illness 
contracted or Injury suffered by the Insured Person 
during the Policy Period and for listed minor procedures 
undergone at a general practitioner or specialist / 
super-specialist medical practitioner by the Insured 
Person during the Policy period maximum up ` 2,000.
  These services shall be provided through our 
Empanelled Health Service Provider subject to 
availability at the time of appointment . The diagnostic 
tests shall include but will not be limited to 
histopathology, biochemistry, hematology, 
immunology, microbiology, serology, pathology, 
radiology , ultrasound and TMT. Genetic studies shall be 
excluded from the scope of this cover.
  We may even arrange for diagnostic tests to be carried 
out at the location of the Insured Person provided such 
location is within the geographical reach of the Health 
Service Provider on the date of the request. This service 
shall be subject to availability of Our empanelled 
Health Service provider.
  List of Minor Procedures covered under this benefit #
  Sr. No. Procedure
  1 Drainage of abscess
  2 Injection including Intramuscular 
(Per Injection cost)
  3 Intravenous injection(IV )
  4 Sprain Management 
(Joint movement/ exercise)
  5 Otoscopic examination 
(Magnifying otoscopy)
  6 Nasal packing for control of haemorrhage
  7 Nebulizer therapy
  8 Removal of foreign body
Golden Shield
17 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223  List of Minor Procedures covered under this benefit #
  Sr. No. Procedure
  9 Suturing (Staple under LA)
  10 Removal of suture
  11 Stabilization of joint
  12 Syringing ear to remove wax
  13 Application or removal of plaster cast
  14 Laryngoscopy
  15 Minor wound management
#
  this includes only the cost of administration. The 
actual cost of consumables shall be covered under the 
pharmacy cover. However, the said cost will have to be 
borne by the insured person in case the annual sum 
insured under the pharmacy cover has been exhausted 
or is out of scope of the Pharmacy cover or in case the 
consumable is a non-pay able item.
 5. Pharmac y cover
  We shall cover medical expenses incurred on purchase 
of medicines, drugs, and medical consumables, as 
prescribed by a Medical Practitioner under our 
cashless network available in the mobile application 
for any Illness contracted or Injury suffered by the 
Insured Person during the Policy Period, maximum up 
to ` 2,000 through our Empanelled Health Service 
Provider subject to availability on the date of the 
request.
  Health supplements, Nutraceuticals, foods for special 
dietary use, foods for special medical purpose, foods 
with added probiotics and/or foods with added 
prebiotics, vaccinations, vitamins, tonics or other 
related products are excluded from the scope of this 
cover.
 6. Nursing at Home 
  We shall cover the expenses incurred by You, up to 
` 2,000 for each day up to a maximum of 15 days post 
Hospitalization for the medical services of a Qualified 
Nurse at Your residence, provided that the nurse is 
employed in a Hospital and the engagement of such 
Qualified Nurse is certified as necessary by a Medical 
Practitioner and related directly to any Illness or Injury, 
covered under the Policy. The payment under this cover 
is subject to admissibilit y of Your In-patient treatment 
Claim under the Policy.
 d. Exclusions
  We will not be liable for any Voluntary Deductible 
amount, if applicable and as specifically defined in the 
Policy Schedule under the Policy.
  We will not be liable to make any payment under this 
Policy in connection with or in respect of any expenses 
whatsoe ver incurred in connection with or in respect of:  i. Standard exclusions (Exclusions for which 
standard wordings are specified by IRDAI)
   1. Code- Excl01: Pre-Existing Diseases 
    a.  Expenses related to the treatment of a 
pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the 
expiry of 24 months of continuous 
coverage after the date of inception of the 
first policy with insurer.
    b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent 
of sum insured increase.
    c. If the Insured Person is continuously 
covered without any break as defined 
under the portability norms of the extant 
IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 
then waiting period for the same would be 
reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
    d. Coverage under the policy after the expiry 
of 24 months for any pre-existing disease 
is subject to the same being declared at 
the time of application and accepted by 
Insurer.
   2. Code- Excl02: Specified disease/procedure 
waiting period
    a. Expenses related to the treatment of the 
listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments 
shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 
months of continuous coverage after the 
date of inception of the first policy with us. 
This exclusion shall not be applicable for 
claims arising due to an accident.
    b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent 
of sum insured increase. 
    c. If any of the specified disease/procedure 
falls under the waiting period specified for 
pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of 
the two waiting periods shall apply.
    d. The waiting period for listed conditions 
shall apply even if contracted after the 
policy or declared and accepted without a 
specific exclusion.
    e. If the Insured Person is continuously 
covered without any break as defined 
under the applicable norms on por tability 
stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period 
for the same would be reduced to the 
extent of prior coverage.
Golden Shield
18 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223  f. List of specific Illness and Surgical Procedures as mention below:
Sr. 
No.Organ /Organ 
SystemIllness/ diagnosis 
(irrespectiv e of treatments medical or sur gical)Surgeries/ P rocedures (irrespectiv e of any 
illness or diagnosis other than canc ers)
1ENT Deviated Nasal Septum Septoplasty
CSOM-Chronic Suppurativ e Otitis Media Mastoidectomy
Tympanoplasty , Myringotomy & 
Myringoplasty
Any treatment f or conditions related to 
tonsils, adenoids, sinuses, T urbinates/ 
concha
2Gynaecological Fibroids (fibromy oma)
Endometriosis, C ervicitis
Uterine P rolapse
Dysfunctional uterine bleeding
Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (P COS)Dilatation and curet tage (D&C)
Myomectomy
Hysterectomy (unless due to malignancy
3Orthopaedic Arthritis
Gout and Rheumatism
Spinal and Vertebral Disorders including diagnosis as low back ache
ArthroscopySurgeries f or joint replac ements
Repairs/ rec onstruction of ligaments/ 
meniscus/ tendons
Spinal & V ertebral Surgeries
4Gastrointestinal Stones in gall bladder & Biliar y System, cholecy stitis, acalculous 
cholecystitis
Fissure/fistula in anus, hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus
Esophageal V arices & Gastric V arices
All types Hernia
Gastrointestinal ulc ers including Gastritis & Duodenitis/ Erosions 
of gastrointestinal tractCholecystectomy, Procedures for biliary 
stones
All forms of Liv er cirrhosis Endoscopy
Procedures for Esophageal Varices & 
Gastric Varices
Endoscopy
5Uro-genital Stones in Urinar y system Surgeries and procedures related to 
Stones in Urinary system
Chronic R enal Failure or end stage R enal Failure or chronic 
kidney disease including dialy sis
Hydrocele, varicocele/ rectoc ele/ Spermatoc eleDialysis but not limited to haemodialy sis & 
peritoneal dialysis
6Eye Cataract
Retinal detachment
Glaucoma
Usage of intra vitreal injections including but not limited to avastin 
& lucentisBenign Hyperplasia of prostate Prostatic Surgeries
Golden Shield
19 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223  f. List of specific Illness and Surgical Procedures as mention below: (Contd.)
Sr. 
No.Organ /Organ 
SystemIllness/ diagnosis 
(irrespectiv e of treatments medical or sur gical)Surgeries/ P rocedures (irrespectiv e of any 
illness or diagnosis other than canc ers)
7Other General 
conditions 
(Applicable to 
all organ 
systems/ 
organs/ 
disciplines 
whether or not 
described 
above)All internal/ external tumors, cysts, nodules, polyps, sinus, fistula
Varicose veins & Varicose ulcers
Parkinson ’s disease/ Alzheimer ’s disease
  Expenses related to any admission primarily for 
enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment . This 
also includes:
  a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility 
for personal care such as help with activities of 
daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving 
around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-
skilled persons.
  b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to 
address  physical,  social, emotional and spiritual 
needs
 iii. Code- Excl06: Obesity/ Weight Control
   Expenses related to the surgical treatment of 
obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:
   1. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of 
the Doctor
   2. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be 
supported by clinical protocols
   3. The member has to be 18 years of age or older 
and
   4. Body Mass Index (BMI);
    a. greater than or equal to 40 or
    b. greater than or equal to 35 in c onjunction 
with any of the following severe co-
morbidities following failure of less 
invasive methods of weight loss:
     i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
     ii. Coronary heart disease
     iii. Severe Sleep Apnea
     iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
 iv. Code- Excl07:  Change of Gender treatments 
  Expenses related to any treatment , including surgical 
management , to change characteristics of the body to 
those of the opposite sex.
 v. Code- Excl08: Cosmetic or plastic Surgery
  Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any 
treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or 3. a. Expenses related to the treatment of the below 
mentioned illness within 90 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded unless they 
are pre-existing and disclosed at the time of 
underwriting
  i.  Hypertension
  ii.  Diabetes
  iii. Cardiac Conditions
 b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured 
Person has continuous coverage for more than twelve 
months.
 c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable 
to the enhanced sum insured in the event of granting 
higher sum insured subsequently .
4. Code- Excl03: 30-day waiting period
 a. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 
30 days from the first policy commenc ement date shall 
be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, 
provided the same are covered.
 b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured 
Person has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve 
months.
 c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable 
to the enhanced sum insured in the event of granting 
higher sum insured subsequently
 Unless covered by way of an appropriate extensions / 
optional covers, We shall not be liable to make any 
payment under this Policy in connection with or in 
respect of
5. Permanent Exclusions 
 i. Code- Excl04: Investigation & Evaluation
  a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for 
diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded.
  b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or 
not incidental to the current diagnosis and 
treatment are excluded.
 ii. Code - Excl05: Exclusion Name: Rest Cure, 
rehabilitation and respite care-
Golden Shield
20 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 xv. Code- Excl18: Maternit y: Medical treatment expenses 
traceable to childbirth (including complicated 
deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during 
hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy . Expenses 
towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and 
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the 
policy period
 ii. Specific exclusions (Exclusions other than those 
mentioned under e.i. above)
  6. Any ailment/ illness/ injury/ condition or treatment 
or service that is specifically excluded in the Policy 
Schedule under Special Conditions
  7. Any expenses incurred on prosthesis, corrective 
devices, external durable medical equipment of 
any kind, instruments used in treatment of sleep 
apnoea syndrome or cost of cochlear implant(s) 
unless necessitated by an Accident or required 
intra-operativ ely.
  8. Multifocal Lens and ambulator y devices such as 
walkers, crutches, splints, stockings of any kind 
and also any medical equipment which is 
subsequently used at home. 
  9. Expenses incurred on dental treatment unless 
necessitated due to an Accident
  10. Personal comfort, cosmetics, convenience and 
hygiene related items and services
  11. Acupressure, acupuncture, magnetic and other 
therapies
  12. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of an 
Illness or necessitated due to an Accident.  
  13. Expenses for venereal disease or any sexually 
transmit ted disease (except HIV/AIDS)
  14. Any Treatment or medical services taken outside 
the geographical boundaries of India.
  15. Any expenses incurred on out-patient (OPD) 
treatment . (This exclusion shall not be applicable 
in case car e management plus pr ogram has been 
opted for by payment of additional premium)
  16. Intentional self-injury (whether arising from an 
attempt to commit suicide or otherwise)
  17. Any injury or illness caused by or arising from or 
attributed to war, invasion, acts of foreign 
enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or 
not), civil war, commotion, unrest, rebellion, 
revolution, military or usurped power or 
confiscation or nationalisation or requisition of or 
damage by or under the order of any government 
or public local authority
  18. Any Illness or Injury caused by or contributed to by 
nuclear weapons/materials or contributed to by or 
arising from ionising radiation or contamination by 
radioactivity by any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear 
waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuelCancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to 
remove a direct and immediate health risk to the 
insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it 
must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner .
 vi. Code- Excl09: Hazardous or Adventure sports
  Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to 
participation as a professional in hazardous or 
adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-
jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor 
racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky 
diving, deep-sea diving.
 vii. Code- Excl10: Breach of law
  Expenses for treatment directly arising from or 
consequent upon any Insured Person committing or 
attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal 
intent.
 viii. Code- Excl11: Excluded Providers
  Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or 
by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider 
specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its 
website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible. 
However, in case of life threatening situations or 
following an accident, expenses up to the stage of 
stabilization are payable but not the complete claim
 ix. Code- Excl12: Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or 
substance abuse or any addictive condition and 
consequenc es thereof. 
 x. Code- Excl13: Treatments   received   in   heath   
hydros,   nature   cure   clinics,   spas   or similar 
establishments or private beds registered as a nursing 
home attached to such establishments or where 
admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic 
reasons.
 xi. Code- Excl14: Dietary supplements and substances that 
can be purchased without prescription, including but  
not limited to Vitamins,  minerals  and  organic 
substances  unless prescribed by a medical practitioner 
as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure.
 xii. Code- Excl15: Expenses related to the treatment for 
correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 
7.5 dioptres
 xiii. Code- Excl16: Unproven Treatments: Expenses  
related  to  any  unproven  treatment ,  services  and  
supplies for  or  in connection with any treatment . 
Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or 
supplies that lack significant medical documentation 
to support their effectiveness.
 xiv. Code- Excl17: Sterility and Infertility:  Expenses related 
to sterility and infertility. This includes:
  i. Any type of contraception, sterilization
  ii. Assisted R eproduction ser vices including ar tificial 
insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
  iii. Gestational Surrogacy
  iv. Reversal of sterilization
Golden Shield
21 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223    (Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate 
fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the 
beginning of the financial year in which claim 
has fallen due)
  4. Complete Discharge
   Any payment to the policyholder , insured person or 
his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representativ e or 
assignee or to the hospital as the case may be, for 
any benefit under the Policy shall be a valid 
discharge towards payment of claim by the 
Company to the extent of that amount for the 
particular claim
  5. Multiple Policies
   i. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured 
person during a period from one or more 
insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the 
insured person shall have the right to require a 
settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of 
his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer 
chosen by the insured person shall be obliged 
to settle the claim as long as the claim is within 
the limits of and ac cording to the terms of the 
chosen policy.
   ii. Insured Person having multiple policies shall 
also have the right to prefer claims under this 
policy for  the amounts disallowed under any 
other policy / policies, even if the sum insured is 
not exhausted. Then the Insurer shall 
independently settle the claim subject to the 
terms and conditions of this policy.
   iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum 
insured under a single policy, the insured 
person shall hav e the right to choose insur ers 
from whom he/she wants to claim the balance 
amount.
   iv. Where an insured person has policies from 
more than one insurer to cover the same risk 
on indemnit y basis,  the insured person shall 
only be indemnified the treatment costs in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the chosen policy.
  6. Fraud
   If any claim made by the insured person, is in any 
respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or 
declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if 
any fraudulent means or devices are used by the 
insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to 
obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under 
this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.
   Any amount already paid against claims made 
under this policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s) / 
policyholder(s), who has made that particular 
claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for 
such repayment to the insurer.  19. Treatment for any condition / illness which requires 
hormone replacement therapy.
  20. Artificial life maintenanc e for the Insured Person 
who has been declared brain dead or in vegetativ e 
state as demonstrated by:
   a.  Deep coma and unresponsiv eness to all forms 
of stimulation; or
   b.  Absent pupillary light reaction; or
   c.  Absent oculo-vestibular and corneal reflexes; 
or
   d.  Complete apnea.
e. General Terms and Clauses
 i. Standard General Terms and Clauses (General Terms 
and clauses whose wordings are specified by IRDAI)
  1. Disclosur e of Information
   The Policy shall be void and all premium paid 
thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis-description or 
non-disclosure of any material fact by the 
policyholder
   (Explanation: "Material facts" for the purpose of 
this policy shall mean all relevant information 
sought by the company in the proposal form and 
other connected documents to enable it to take 
informed decision in the context of underwriting 
the risk)
  2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability
   The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled 
by the insured person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.
  3. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal lnterest)
   I. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as 
the case may be, within 30 days from the date 
of receipt of last necessary document .
   II. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, 
the Company shall be liable to pay interest to 
the policyholder from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document to the date of payment of 
claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate.
   III. However, where the circumstanc es of a claim 
warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such 
investigation at the earliest, in any case not 
later than 30 days from the date of receipt of 
last necessary document . ln such cases, the 
Company shall settle or reject the claim within 
45 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document .
   IV. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the 
Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate 
from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document to the date of payment of claim.
Golden Shield
22 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 8. Migration:
  The insured person will have the option to migrate the 
policy to other health insuranc e products/plans offered 
by the company by applying for migration of the policy 
at least 30 day s before the policy r enewal date as per 
IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is 
presently covered and has been continuously covered  
without any lapses under any health insurance 
product/ plan offered by the company, the insured 
person will get the accrued continuity benefits in 
waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration.
  For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layo
ut.aspx?page=PageNo3987
 9. Portability 
  The insured person will have the option to port the 
policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to 
port the entire policy along with all the members of the 
family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier 
than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI 
guidelines related to portability. lf such person is 
presently covered and has been continuously covered 
without any lapses under any health insuranc e policy 
with an lndian General/Health insurer, the proposed 
insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits 
in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on 
portability.
  For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/ cms/frmGuidelin
es_Layout.aspx?page=P ageNo3987    
 10. Renewal of Policy
  The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on 
grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured 
person
  i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for 
renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal.
  ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the 
insured person had made a claim or claims in the 
preceding policy years.
  iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium 
shall be received by the Company before the end of 
the policy period.
  iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall 
terminate and can be renewed within the Grace 
Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits 
without break in policy. Coverage is not available 
during the grace period.
  v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on 
individual claims experienc e.
 11. Withdraw al of Policy
  i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in 
future, the Company will intimate the insured 
person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of 
the policy.   For the purpose of this clause, the expression 
"fraud" means any of the following acts committed 
by the Insured Person or by his agent or the 
hospital/ doctor/any other party acting on behalf of 
the insured person, with intent to deceive the 
insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an 
insuranc e Policy :-
   a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not 
true and which the Insured Person does not 
believe to be true;
   b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured 
Person having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
   c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
   d) any such act or omission as the law specially 
declares to be fraudulent
   The company shall not repudiate the claim and / or 
forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of fraud, if 
the insured person / beneficiar y can prove that the 
misstatement was true to the best of his 
knowledge and there was no deliberate intention 
to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of 
or suppression of material fact are within the 
knowledge of the insurer. 
 7. Cancellation
  a) The policyholder may cancel this Policy by giving 
15 days' written notice, and in such an event, the 
Company shall refund premium for the unexpired 
Policy Period as detailed below.
   Cancellation Period Refund %  Refund % Refund %
    for 1 year  for 2 years  for 3 years
    tenure  tenure tenure 
    policy policy policy
   From 16 days to 1 month 75% 80% 80%
   From 1 month to  3 months 60% 70% 75%
   From 3 months to 6 months 40% 60% 70%
   From 6 months to 9 months 20% 50% 60%
   From 9 months to 12 months 0% 40% 55%
   From 12 months to 15 months  - 30% 45%
   From 15 months to 18 months  - 20% 40%
   From 18 months to 21 months  - 10% 35%
   From 21 months to 24 months  - 0% 25%
   From 24 months to 27 months  - -  20%
   From 27 months to 30 months  -  - 10%
   From 30 months to 33 months  -  - 5%
   From 33 months to 36 months  -  - 0%
   Notwithstanding anything contained herein or 
otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in  
respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been 
admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has 
been availed by the Insured person under the 
Policy.
  b) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on 
grounds of mis-representation, non-disclosur e of 
material facts, fraud by the Insured Person, by 
giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no 
refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of 
mis-representation, non-disclosure of material 
facts or fraud.
Golden Shield
23 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 15. Free look period
  The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new 
individual health insurance policies and not on 
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.
  The insured person shall be allowed free look period of 
fifteen days from date of receipt of the Policy 
documents to review the  terms and conditions of the 
Policy, and to return the same if not acceptable.
  If the insured has not made any claim during the Free 
Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to
  a) a refund of the premium paid less any expenses 
incurred by the company on medical examination 
of the insured person and the stamp duty charges; 
or
  b) where the risk has already commenc ed and the 
option of return of the Policy is exercised by the  
insured person, a deduction towards the 
proportionate risk premium for period of cover or
  c) where only a part of the insuranc e coverage has 
commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage 
during such period;
 16. Redressal of Grievances
  ln case of any grievance the insured person may 
contact the company through
  Website : www.icicilombar d.com
  Toll Free : 1 800 2666
  E-Mail : c ustomersuppor t@icicilombar d.com
  Courier : ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd.
    I CICI Lombard House, 
   414, Veer Savarkar Marg, 
   Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, 
   Prabhade vi, Mumbai- 400025
  lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at 
any of the company's branches with the details of 
grievance.
  lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of 
grievance through one of the above methods, insured 
person may contact the grievance officer at : 
  Manager - Service Quality,  
  Corporate Manager - Service Quality, 
  National Manager - Operations &
  finally Director-services and Business development at 
the following address:
  ICICI Lombard General Insuranc e Company Limited,
  ICICI Lombard House, 
  414, Veer Savarkar Marg, 
  Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
  Prabhade vi, Mumbai - 400 025.
  For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link
  https://www.icicilombar d.com/grievance-redressal
  lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of 
grievance through above methods, the insured person   ii. lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to 
similar health insuranc e product available with the 
Company at the time of renewal with all the 
accrued continuity benefits such as cumulativ e 
bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI 
guidelines, provided the policy has been 
maintained without a break.
 12. Moratorium Period 
  After completion of eight continuous years under this 
policy no look back would be applied. This period of 
eight years is called as moratorium period. The 
moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured 
of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8 
continuous years would be applicable from date of 
enhancement of sum insured only on the enhanced 
limits. After the expir y of Moratorium P eriod no health 
insuranc e claim shall be contestable except for proven 
fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy 
contract. The policies would however be subject to all 
limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the 
policy contract
 13. Premium Payment in lnstalments (Wherever 
applicable ) 
  lf the insured person has opted for Payment of 
Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the policy 
Schedule/Certificate of lnsurance, the following 
Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms 
contrary elsewhere in the policy)
  i. Grace Period of 15  days would be given to pay the 
instalment premium due for the policy.
  ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be 
available from the due date of instalment premium 
till the date of receipt of premium by Company.
  iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity 
benefit in respect of the "Waiting Periods", 
"Specific Waiting Periods" in the event of payment 
of premium within the stipulated grace Period.
  iv. No interest will be charged lf the instalment 
premium is not paid on due date.
  v. ln case of instalment premium due not received 
within the grace period, the policy will get 
cancelled.
  vi. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium 
instalments shall immediately become due and 
payable.
  vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct 
all the pending instalments from the claim amount 
due under the policy.
 14. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including 
the Premium Rates 
  The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise 
or modify the terms of the policy including the premium 
rates. The insured person shall be notified three 
months before the changes are effected.
Golden Shield
24 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223based co-payment shall not be applicable in case of 
medically necessary treatment taken for road traffic 
accidents.
  The additional zone based co-payment that will be levied will 
be as per tables mentioned below
   Additional zone based Co-Payment Grid
 Treatment  Zone opted at 
 taken in Zone policy issuanc e
  A B C
 A 0% 15.0% 25.0%
 B Nil additional  0% 12.0%
  co-payment
 C Nil additional  Nil additional  0%    
  co-payment co-payment 
  Please refer to the claim illustrations as detailed in g. 
other terms and conditions 1. Claim Administration for 
further understanding
 19. Conditional Underwriting
  Risk based loading:
  We may apply a risk loading on the premium payable 
(based on the declarations made in the pr oposal form 
and the health status of the persons proposed for 
insuranc e) at the Commenc ement Date or on any 
renewal of the Policy with Us or on the receipt of a 
request for enhancing the Annual Sum Insured. The 
maximum risk loading applicable f or an individual will 
not exceed 100% per diagnosis / medical condition and 
an overall risk loading of 200% per individual. 
  We will send You the applicable risk loading in writing 
via a counter offer letter. You shall give Us Your consent 
and the additional pr emium (if any), within 15 day s of 
the issuance of Our Counter offer letter. 
  If You neither accept Our letter nor revert to Us within 
15 days, We will cancel Your application and refund the 
premium paid within the next 7 days.
 20. Material Change
  The Insured shall notify the Company in writing of any 
material change in the risk in relation to the declaration 
made in the proposal form or medical examination 
report at each Renewal and the Company may, adjust 
the scope of cover and/or premium, if necessary, 
accordingly.
 21. Records to be Maintained
  The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record 
containing all relevant medical records and shall allow 
the Company or its representativ es to inspect such 
records. The Proposer or Insured Person shall furnish 
such information as the Company may require for 
settlement of any claim under the Policy, within 
reasonable time limit and within the time limit specified 
in the Policy.
 22. Notice & Communication
  i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other 
communication related to the Policy should be 
made in writing.may also approach the office of lnsurance 
Ombudsman of the respective area/region for 
redressal of grievance as per lnsuranc e Ombudsman 
Rules 2017.  Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI 
lntegrated Grievance Management System 
https://igms.irda.gov.in/
 17. Nomination:
  The policyholder is required at the inception of the 
policy to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the policy in the event of 
death of the policyholder . Any change of nomination 
shall be c ommunicated to the c ompany in writing and 
such change shall be effective only when an 
endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of 
death of the policyholder , the Company will pay the 
nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy 
Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no 
subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal 
representativ es of the policyholder whose discharge 
shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability 
under the policy.
ii. Specific terms and clauses (terms and other clauses 
other than those mentioned above under f. I. above)
 18. Zone based Premium
  This Policy only covers medical treatment taken within 
India arising during the Policy Period. All payments 
under this Policy will only be made in Indian Rupees 
within India. 
  The construction, interpretation and meaning of the 
provisions of this Policy shall be determined in 
accordance with Indian law. 
  For the purpose of Policy issuance, the premium will be 
computed basis the zone chosen by the Insured Person 
in the proposal form. The premium that would be 
applicable zone wise and the cities defined in each 
zone are as under:
  • Zone A- NCR*, Mumbai, Thane District,, Navi 
Mumbai, Gujarat, Kolkata
  • Zone B- Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Chhattisgarh, 
Madhya Pradesh, Daman & Diu, Dadar & Nagar 
Haveli, Goa, Maharashtra (excluding Mumbai, 
Thane District, Navi Mumbai)
  • Zone C- Rest of India
  NCR* includes Includes Delhi and the following 
districts: Faridabad, Gurgaon/Gurugram, Mewat, 
Rohtak, Sonipat, Panipat, Jhajjhar, Palwal, Karnal, 
Ghaziabad, Noida/Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr , 
Baghpat , Hapur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar
  Additional zone based Co-Payment would be levied on 
each and every claim (over and above the base co-
payment opted by the Insured person) in case 
medically necessary treatment has been taken in a 
zone higher (Zone A being the highest followed by 
Zone B and then Zone C) than the zone for which 
premium has been paid on issuance of the policy. Zone 
Golden Shield
25 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223and Conciliation Act 1996, as amended by 
Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment ) Act, 
2015 (No. 3 of 2016).
  ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference 
or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration as herein 
before provided, if the Company has disputed or not 
accepted liability under or in respect of the policy, iii. It 
is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it 
shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or 
suit upon the policy that award by such arbitrator / 
arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first 
obtained.
 27. Policy alignment 
  Policy Alignment option will be available in cases 
wherein insured(s) with two separate health indemnit y 
policies with Us, having different policy end dates but 
want to align the policy start dates. We can align the 
policies by extending the coverage of one policy till the 
end date of the other policy.
  Such policies will be charged with premium on pro rata 
basis though the sum insured under the policy shall 
remain constant. 
 28. Endorsements (Changes in Policy)
  i. This policy constitutes the complete contract of 
insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by 
anyone (including an insuranc e agent or broker) 
except the company. Any change made by the 
company shall be evidenced by a written 
endorsement signed and stamped.
  ii. The proposer may be changed only at the time of 
renewal. The new proposer must be the legal 
heir/immediate family member. Such change 
would be subject to acceptance by the company 
and payment of premium (if any). The renewed 
Policy shall be treated as having been  renewed 
without break.
  iii. The proposer may be changed during the Policy 
Period only in case of his/her demise or him/her 
moving out of India.
  iv. Mid- term endorsement of addition of members in 
the policy shall not be permitted
 29. Change of Sum Insured
  Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) 
only at the time of r enewal subject to under writing b y 
the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period 
shall start afresh only for the enhanced portion of the 
sum insured. 
 30. Non Payables
  Below are the non-pay able items applicable in the 
policy. The list may be updated as per the direction of 
Authorit y, for updated list please visit our website: 
www.iciciclombar d.com  ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address 
of the Company or through any other electronic 
modes specified in the Policy Schedule.
  iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured at 
the address or through any other electronic mode 
mentioned in the schedule.
 23. Territorial Limit
  All medical treatment for the purpose of this insuranc e 
will have to be taken in India only.
 24. Automatic change in Coverage under the policy
  The coverage for the Insured Person(s) shall 
automatically terminate:
  i. In the case of his/ her (Insured Person) demise.
   However the cover shall continue for the remaining 
Insured Persons till the end of Policy Period. The 
other insured persons may also apply to renew the 
policy. In case, the other insured person is minor, 
the policy shall be renewed only through any one 
of his/her natural guardian or guardian appointed 
by court. All relevant particulars in respect of such 
person (including his/her relationship with the 
insured person) must be submitted to the company 
along with the application. Provided no claim has 
been made, and termination takes place on 
account of death of the insured person, pro-rata 
refund of premium of the deceased insured person 
for the balance period of the policy will be effective.
  ii. Upon exhaustion of sum insured and additional 
sum insured (if any), for the policy year. However, 
the policy is  subject to renewal on the due date as 
per the applicable terms and conditions.
 25. Territorial Jurisdiction
  All disputes or differences under or in relation to the 
interpretation of the terms, conditions, validity, 
construct , limitations and/or exclusions contained in 
the Policy shall be determined b y the Indian c ourt and 
according to Indian law. 
 26. Arbitration
  i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the 
quantum to be paid by the Policy, (liability being 
otherwise admitted) such difference shall 
independently of all other questions, be referred to 
the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in 
writing by the parties here to or if they cannot 
agree upon a single arbitrator within thirty days of 
any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be 
referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising 
two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the 
parties to the dispute/difference and the third 
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators 
and arbitration shall be conducted under and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration 
Golden Shield
26 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223List of Non Payable Items as per IRDAI (Contd.)
 Sr. No. Items
 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGE S
 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGE S- SPECIAL NURSING 
CHARGE S
 53 SUGAR FREE Tablets
 54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not 
payable, only prescribed medical pharmac euticals 
payable)
 55 ECG ELECTRODES
 56 GLOVES
 57 NEBULISA TION KIT
 58 RECOVERY KIT, ETC]ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS 
MENTIONED [DELIVER Y KIT, ORTHOKIT,
 59 KIDNEY TRAY
 60 MASK
 61 OUNCE GLASS
 62 OXYGEN MASK
 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
 64 PAN CAN
 65 TROLLY COVER
 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
 67 AMBULANCE
 68 VASOFIX SAFETY
 f. Other Terms and Conditions 
  1. Claim Administration
   The fulfilment of the terms and conditions of this 
Policy (including payment of premium by the due 
dates mentioned in the Policy Schedule ) insofar as 
they relate to anything to be done or complied with 
by each of You shall be conditions precedent to 
admission of Our liabilit y. You are requested to go 
through our list of de-listed/excluded providers 
which is available on our website. As the list is 
dynamic , please refer to the latest list.
   The claim pay-out would be adjudicated in 
following sequenc e:
   i. If a room/ICU accommodation has been opted 
for where the room rent or category is higher 
than the eligible limit as applicable for the 
Insured Person, then the associated medical 
expenses payable shall be pro-rated as per 
applicable limits.
   ii. Associated medical expenses means those 
expenses as listed below which vary in 
accordance with the room rent or room 
category or ICU Charges in a hospital:
    a. Room, boarding, nursing and operation 
theatre expenses as charged by the 
Hospital where the insured person availed 
treatment 
    b. Intensive care unit (ICU) ChargesList of Non Payable Items as per IRDAI
 Sr. No. Items
 1 BABY FOOD
 2 BABY UTILITIE S CHARGE S
 3 BEAUTY SERVICES
 4 BELTS/ BRACES
 5 BUDS 
 6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK
 7 CARRY BAGS
 8 EMAIL / INTERNE T CHARGE S
 9 FOOD CHARGE S (OTHER THAN PATIENT’s DIET
  PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)
 10 LEGGINGS
 11 LAUNDRY CHARGE S
 12 MINERAL WATER
 13 SANITARY PAD
 14 TELEPHONE CHARGE S
 15 GUEST SERVICES
 16 CREPE BANDAGE
 17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
 18 EYELET COLLAR
 19 SLINGS
 20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF 
DONORS SAMPLE S
 21 SERVICE CHARGE S WHERE NURSING CHARGE 
ALSO CHARGED
 22 Television Charges
 23 SURCHARGE S
 24 ATTENDANT CHARGE S
 25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT 
WHICH FORMS PART OF BED
 26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE
 27 CERTIFICATE CHARGE S
 28 COURIER CHARGE S
 29 CONVEYANCE CHARGE S
 30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
 31 MEDICAL RECORDS
 32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGE S
 33 MORTUARY CHARGE S
 34 WALKING AIDS CHARGE S
 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE 
HOSPITAL)
 36 SPACER
 37 SPIROME TRE
 38 NEBULIZER KIT
 39 STEAM INHALER
 40 ARMSLING
 41 THERMOME TER
 42 CERVICAL COLLAR
 43 SPLINT
 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED )
 46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER /SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
 47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
Golden Shield
27 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223applied incase voluntary deductible has been 
opted for. 
   v. Base Co-payment shall be applicable on the 
amount payable by Us and our liability to 
make payment shall than be arrived at.
   vi. In case, the claim is for a Procedure/Medical 
Condition/ Ailment/Disease which is subject to 
sub-limits as per policy terms and conditions, 
the claim will be settled to the extent of 
amount which is lesser of the three amounts – 
i.e. claimed amount or maximum amount as 
per sub-limits applicable or ICICI Lombard 
Liability after deduction of base co-payment / 
voluntary deductible.    c. Fees charged by surgeon, anesthetist, 
medical practitioner
    d. Investigation expenses
   iii. Zone based co-payment shall be applicable in  
all cases (Except medically necessary 
treatment for road traffic accidents) where 
treatment is taken in a zone higher than for 
which premium was paid for
   iv. The voluntary deductible shall be applied to 
aggregate of all claims that are either paid or 
payable (not excluded) under this policy. Our 
liability to make payment shall commenc e only 
once the aggregate amount of all claims 
payable or paid exceed the voluntary 
deductible. Base Co-payment shall not be 
Illustration 2 - Insur ed person opted f or voluntary deductible
Heading Particulars
A.Annual Sum Insured ` 20,00,000 ` 20,00,000
B.Voluntary deductible opted at time of policy issuanc eScenario 1 Scenario 2
` 4,00,000 ` 4,00,000
C.Base Co-payment applicable NA NA
Zone opted B (Goa) B (Goa)
Hospitalization Diagnosis Heart Attack/ 
PTCA done/ 
Cardiovascular 
diseaseHeart Attack/ 
PTCA done/ 
Cardiovascular 
disease
Treatment tak en in Goa  (Zone B) Mumbai ( Zone A)` 20,00,000Scenario 3
` 4,00,000
NA
B (Goa)
Guwahati (Zone C)Heart Attack/ 
PTCA done/ 
Cardiovascular 
diseaseIllustrations f or claim set tlement
Illustration 1 - Insur ed Person opted f or base c o-payment
Heading Particulars
A.Annual Sum Insured ` 10,00,000 ` 10,00,000 ` 10,00,000
B.Base Co-payment opted at time of policy issuanc eScenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
20% 20% 20%
Zone opted B (Goa) B (Goa) B (Goa)
Hospitalization Diagnosis Heart Attack/ 
PTCA done/ 
Cardiovascular 
diseaseHeart Attack/ 
PTCA done/ 
Cardiovascular 
diseaseHeart Attack/ 
PTCA done/ 
Cardiovascular 
disease
Treatment tak en in Goa (Zone B) Mumbai ( Zone A) Guwahati (Zone C)
C.Hospitalisation expenses Amount ` 4,00,000 ` 5,00,000 ` 3,00,000
D.Pre and P ost hospitalisation expenses ` 35,000 ` 50,000 ` 20,000
E.Total claimed Expenses*[ C+D] ` 4,35,000 ` 5,50,000 ` 3,20,000
F.Zone based c o-payment 0% 15% 0%
G.Claimed amount af ter application of z one based c o-payment 
[E*F]` 4,35,000 ` 4,67,500 ` 3,20,000
H.Sub-limit for cardio vascular diseases  ` 3,50,000  ` 3,50,000
I.Insured P erson liability af ter application of base c o-payment 
[G*B] ` 87,000  ` 93,500  ` 64,000
J.ICICI Lombard Liability af ter deduction of c o-payment [ G-I]  ` 3,48,000  ` 3,74,000  ` 2,56,000
Final payable amount to Insured Person [lesser amount out of G, H, J]  ` 3,48,000  ` 3,50,000  ` 2,56,000 K.
Balance Annual Sum Insured [A -K]  ` 6,52,000  ` 6,50,000  ` 7,44,000 L.
*It has been assumed that total claimed expenses are same as total pay able expenses. i. e. there are no deductions in the claimed amount . ` 3,50,000
Golden Shield
28 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Illustrations f or claim set tlement  (Contd.)
Illustration 2 - Insur ed person opted f or voluntary deductible (Contd.)
Heading Particulars Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
J.Sub-limit for cardio vascular diseases  ` 3,50,000  ` 3,50,000  ` 3,50,000
Final pay able amount to Insured P erson [lesser amount out of I, J]  ` 35,000  ` 67,500 K.
Balance Annual Sum Insured [A -K]  ` 19,65,000  ` 19,32,500  ` 20,00,000 L.
*It has been assumed that total claimed expenses are same as total pay able expenses. i. e. there are no deductions in the claimed amount .D.Hospitalisation expenses Amount ` 4,00,000 ` 5,00,000 ` 3,00,000
E.Pre and P ost hospitalisation expenses ` 35,000 ` 50,000 ` 20,000
F.Total claimed Expenses*[D+E] ` 4,35,000 ` 5,50,000 ` 3,20,000
G.Zone based c o-payment 0% 15% 0%
H.Claimed amount af ter application of z one based c o-payment 
[F*G]` 4,35,000 ` 4,67,500 ` 3,20,000
I.IL Liability af ter application of v oluntary deductible [H-B]  ` 35,000  ` 67,500
The claim amount assessed above would be deducted from the 
following amounts in the following progressive order:
1. Annual Sum Insured
2. Additional Sum Insur ed/Cumulativ e Bonus (if ac crued and 
available)
3. Reset Sum Insured (If applicable )
Further, upon the discovery or happening of any Illness or Injury 
that may give rise to a Claim under this Policy, then as a 
condition precedent to the admission of Our liability, You shall 
undertake the following:
1.1 Claims Procedure
 A. For Cashless Settlement 
  Cashless treatment is only available at a Network 
Provider (List of Network Providers is available at our 
website). In order to avail of cashless treatment , the 
following procedure must be followed by You:
  Pre-authorization
  Prior to taking treatment and/ or incurring Medical 
Expenses at a Net work Provider, You must c ontact Us 
or Our in house claim processing team accompanied 
with full particulars namely, Policy Number, Your name, 
Your relationship with Policy Holder, nature of Illness or 
Injury, name and address of the Medical Practitioner / 
Hospital and any other information that may be 
relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalisation. You must 
request preauthorization at least 48 hours before a 
planned Hospitalization and in case of an emergency 
situation, within 24 hours of Hospitalization. To avail of 
Cashless Hospitalization facility, you are required to 
produce the health card, as provided to You with this 
Policy, subject to the terms and conditions for the 
usage of the said health card Or You can seek pre authorization by providing Your Policy number and ID 
proof to the hospital who can co-ordinate with Our 
claim team to provide cashless facility. We will consider 
Your request after having obtained accurate and 
complete information for the Illness or Injury for which 
cashless Hospitalization facility is sought by You and 
We will confirm Your request in writing.
 B. For Reimbursement Settlement
  i. You shall give notice to Us or Our in house claim 
processing team by calling the toll free number 
1800 2666 or emailing us at as 
customersupport@icicilombard.com specified in 
the Policy provided to You and also in writing at 
Our address with particulars as below:
   v Policy number;
   v Your Name;
   v Your relationship with the Policyholder ;
   v Nature of Illness or Injury;
   v Name and address of the attending Medical 
Practitioner and the Hospital;
   v Any other information that may be relevant to 
the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalisation
   The above information needs to be provided to Us 
or Our in house claim processing team immediately 
and in any event within 10 days of Hospitalization, 
failing which We will have the right to treat the 
Claim as inadmissible, as We may deem fit at Our 
sole discretion.
  ii. You must immediately consult a Medical 
Practitioner and follow the advice and treatment 
that he recommends.NA as 
expenses hav e 
not crossed 
voluntary 
deductible 
amount
-
Golden Shield
29 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223of Policy) OR communicate non admissibilit y of claim 
within 14 days after You submit complete set of 
documents & information in respect of the claims. In 
case We fail to make the payment of admissible claims 
or to communicate non admissibilit y of claim within the 
time period, We shall pay 2% interest over and above 
the rate defined as per IRDAI (Protection of 
Policyholder's interest) Regulation 2017.
 B. For Cashless Claims: If You notify pre authorization 
request for cashless facility through any of Our 
empanelled network hospitals along with complete set 
of documents & inf ormation, W e will respond within 4 
hours of the actual receipt of such pre authorization 
request with:
  a. Approval, or
  b. Rejection, or
  c. Query seeking further information
   In case the request is for enhancement, i.e. Request 
for increase in the amount already authoriz ed, We 
will respond to it within 3 hours.
   In case of delay in response by Us beyond the time 
period as stated above for cashless claims, We 
shall be liable to pay  1,000 to You. Our maximum `
liability in respect of a single hospitalization shall, 
at no time ex ceed  1,000. W e will not be liable to `
make any payments under this Claim Service 
Guarantee in case of any force majeure, natural 
event or manmade disturbanc e which impedes 
Our inability to make a decision or to communicate 
such decisions to You.
   The service guarantee shall not be applicable for 
any cases delayed on account of reasonable 
apprehension of fraud or fraudulent claims or 
cases referred to/by any adjudicativ e forum for 
necessary disposal.
   You may lodge claim separately for the 
hospitalization claim, Pre-Post hospitalization. In 
such scenario, if delay happens beyond the time 
period as specified above, the interest amount 
calculated will be on the net sanctioned amount of 
respectiv e transaction and not the total amount 
paid for the entire claim.
   Any amount paid towards interest under Claim 
Service Guarantee will not affect the Annual Sum 
Insured as specified in the Schedule.
   If you are not eligible for 'Claim Service Guarantee' 
for the reasons stated above, We will inform the 
same to You, within 14 days in case of A. For 
Reimbursement claims and within 4 hours in case 
of B. For Cashless claims above.  You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly 
and in any event within 30 days of Your discharge from 
a Hospital (for post-hospitalization expenses, within 
30 days from the completion of post-hospitalization 
period) deliver to Us the documentation (written details 
of the quantum of any Claim along with all original 
supporting documentation) as more particularly listed 
in Claim documents section. In case there is a delay 
beyond 30 days in submission of  claim documents, we 
may condone the delay provided the insured person 
submits a valid reason justifying the delay to us in 
writing. However, in both the above cases i.e. 
g.1.1.1(A) & (B), You must take reasonable steps or 
measure to minimise the quantum of any Claim that 
may be covered under the Policy If so requested by Us 
or Our in house claim processing team, You will have to 
undergo a medical examination from Our nominated 
Medical Practitioner , as and when We or Our in house 
claim processing team considers reasonable and 
necessary. The cost of such examination will be borne 
by Us.
 Claim falling in two Policy periods
 If the claim event falls within two Policy periods, the claims 
shall be paid taking into consideration the available Sum 
Insured in the two Policy periods, including the Deductions 
for each Policy Period. Such eligible claim amount to be 
payable to the Insured shall be reduced to the extent of 
premium to be received for the Renewal/due date of 
premium of health insuranc e Policy, if not received earlier.
1.2 CLAIM DOCUMENT S
 You shall be required to furnish the following documents for 
or in support of a Claim:
 i. Duly completed Claim form signed by You and the 
Medical Practitioner. The claim form can be 
downloaded from our website www.icicilombar d.com.
 ii. Original bills, receipts and discharge certificate/ card 
from the Hospital/ Medical Practitioner .
 iii. Original bills from chemists supported by proper 
prescription.
 iv. Original investigation test reports and payment 
receipts.
 v. Indoor case papers
 vi. Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising 
Hospitalization in non-Accident cases.
 vii. Any other document as required by Us or Our TPA to 
investigate the Claim or Our obligation to make 
payment for it
1.3  Claim Service Guarantee
 We provide You Claim Service Guarantee as follows
 A. For Reimbursement Claims: We shall make the 
payment of admissible claim (as per terms & conditions 
Golden Shield
30 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Office DetailsJurisdiction of Of fice 
Union Territory, District )
BHOPAL 
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya 
Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins. co.inMadhya Pradesh 
Chattisgarh.
BHUBANE SHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra 
Panda
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 62, 
Forest park, Bhubneshw ar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.inOrissa. 
CHANDIGARH
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17-D, 
Chandigarh - 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal. chandigarh@cioins. co.inPunjab, Haryana 
(excluding Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat 
and Bahadurgarh) 
Himachal Pradesh, 
Union Territories of 
Jammu & Kashmir , 
Ladakh & 
Chandigarh.
CHENNAI
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet , Chennai - 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal. chennai@cioins. co.inTamil Nadu, Tamil 
Nadu Puducherr y 
Town and Karaikal 
(which are part of 
Puducherr y).AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th Floor, Tilak 
Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad - 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins. co.inGujarat, Dadra & 
Nagar Haveli, Daman 
and Diu.
BENGAL URU
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building, PID No. 57-27-N-19, 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru - 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins. co.inKarnataka.Office DetailsJurisdiction of Of fice 
Union Territory, District )
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insuranc e Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi - 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal. delhi@cioins. co.inDelhi & Following 
Districts of Haryana 
- Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat 
& Bahadur garh.
GUWAHATI 
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over 
Bridge, S. S. Road, Guwahati -781001 
(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal. guwahati@cioins. co.inAssam, Meghalay a, 
Manipur , Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and 
Tripura.
HYDERABAD 
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, “Moin Court”, Lane Opp. 
Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards, 
Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.inAndhra Pradesh, 
Telangana, Yanam 
and part of Union 
Territory of 
Puducherr y.ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin 
Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal. ernakulam@cioins. co.inKerala, Lakshadweep, 
Mahe-a part of Union 
Territory of 
Puducherr y.
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath 
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.k olkata@cioins. co.inWest Bengal, Sikkim, 
Andaman & Nicobar 
Islands.JAIPUR 
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi - II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani 
Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: bimalokpal. jaipur@cioins. co.inRajasthan.Annexur e A
LUCKNOW - Shri Justice Anil Kumar 
Srivastava 
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001.
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.luckno w@cioins. co.inDistricts of Uttar 
Pradesh : Lalitpur, 
Jhansi, Mahoba, 
Hamirpur , Banda, 
Chitrakoot,  
Allahabad, Mirzapur , 
Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, 
Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur , Bahraich, 
Barabanki, Raebareli, 
Sravasti, Gonda, 
Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, 
Balrampur , Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar , 
Sultanpur , 
Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar , 
Azamgarh, 
Kushinagar , 
Gorkhpur , Deoria, 
Mau, Ghazipur , 
Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar .
MUMBAI
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road, 
Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins. co.inGoa, Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region 
excluding Navi 
Mumbai & Thane.
Golden Shield
31 CIN: L67200MH2000PL C129408 UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223Office DetailsJurisdiction of Of fice 
Union Territory, District )Office DetailsJurisdiction of Of fice 
Union Territory, District )Annexur e A (Contd.)
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad 
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main 
Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam 
Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins. co.inState of Uttaranchal 
and the following 
Districts of Uttar 
Pradesh: Agra, 
Aligarh, Bagpat, 
Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, 
Bulandshehar , Etah, 
Kanooj, Mainpuri, 
Mathura, Meerut, 
Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar , 
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, 
Etawah, Farrukhabad, 
Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar , 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur , Hapur, 
Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, 
Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar , 
Saharanpur .PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
1st Floor, Kalpana Arcade Building, 
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur , 
Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins. co.inBihar, Jharkhand.
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah
Office of the Insuranc e Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N. C. Kelkar Road, 
Narayan Peth, Pune - 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins. co.inMaharashtra, Area of 
Navi Mumbai and 
Thane excluding 
Mumbai Metropolitan 
Region.
Mailing Addr ess : 601 & 602, 6th Floor , Interface 16, New Linking R oad, Malad ( West), Mumbai - 400 064.
Corporate Of fice : ICICI Lombard House, 414, V eer Savarkar Marg, Near Siddhi Vinay ak Temple, P rabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025.
Visit us at www.icicilombard. com • Mail us at customersuppor t@icicilombard. com • Toll Free No.: 1800 2666  (Toll Free also ac cessible from your mobile )
Insuranc e is the subject mat ter of solicitation. IRDA Reg. No. 115 UIN: ICIHLIP22012V012223ICICI Lombar d General Insuranc e Company Limited


--- DOCUMENT TABLES ---

Table 1:
   Unnamed: 0 information Norm, including the information provided by iv.  Maintaining daily records of the patients and
0         NaN  Proposer in respect of the Insured Persons in ...                 making them accessible to the insurance
1         NaN  Form, any application for insurance cover in r...                     company’s authorized representative
2         NaN  Insured Person and any other information or de...                AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes
3         NaN  submitted in relation to the Proposal Form. Th...           Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health
4         NaN  contract of insurance between You and Us which...       Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic o...
5         NaN  to the receipt of premium in full and accepted...        health centre which is registered with the local
6         NaN  respect of the Insured Persons and the terms, ...       authorities, wherever applicable and having fa...
7         NaN  and exclusions as specified in the Policy/ Pol...       for carrying out treatment procedures and medi...
8         NaN              Product Benefit Table of this Policy.       surgical/para-surgical interventions or both u...
9          c.                                        Definitions       supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practi...
10        NaN  For the purposes of this Policy, the terms spe...       (s) on day care basis without in- patient serv...
11        NaN  shall have the meaning set forth wherever appe...           must comply with all the following criterion:
12        NaN    specified in this Policy or related Extensions:            a. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical
13        NaN  Where the context so requires, references to t...                              Practitioner(s) in charge;
14        NaN  shall also include references to the plural an...           b. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as
15        NaN  any gender shall include references to all gen...          required and/or has equipped operation theatre
16        NaN  any references to statutory enactment include ...        where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
17        NaN                               changes to the same.       c.  Maintaining daily records of the patients and
18        NaN  i.  Standard definitions (Definitions whose wo...                 making them accessible to the insurance
19        NaN                            are specified by IRDAI)                    company’s authorized representative.
20        NaN  Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involu...       (Explanation: Medical practitioner referred in...
21        NaN  event caused by external, visible and violent ...       definition of “AYUSH Hospital” and “AYUSH day ...
22        NaN  Any one illness means continuous Period of ill...       center” shall carry the same meaning as define...
23        NaN  it includes relapse within 45 days from the da...       definition of “Medical practitioner” under cha...
24        NaN  consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where                                             Guidelines)
25        NaN                               treatment was taken.       Cashless Facility means a facility extended by...
26        NaN    Ayush Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein       insurer to the insured where the payments, of ...
27        NaN  medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment proce...       of treatment undergone by the insured in accor...
28        NaN  and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Med...       with the policy terms and conditions, are dire...
29        NaN  practitioner(s) comprising of any of the follo...       to the network provider by the insurer to the ...
30        NaN                                                NaN                                 authorization approved.
31        NaN  a.  Central or State government AYUSH hospital...                                                     NaN
32        NaN                                                NaN         Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or
33        NaN    b.  Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH college                                                     NaN
34        NaN                                                NaN       condition upon which the Insurer's liability u...
35        NaN       recognized by the central government/Central                                                     NaN
36        NaN                                                NaN                             policy is conditional upon.
37        NaN    council of Indian medicine/ Central council for                                                     NaN
38        NaN                                     Homeopathy; or       Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) wh...
39        NaN                                                NaN         present since birth, and which is abnormal with
40        NaN  c.  AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located w...                                                     NaN
41        NaN                                                NaN               reference to form, structure or position.
42        NaN      patient healthcare facility of any recognized                                                     NaN
43        NaN      system of medicine, registered with the local       a. Internal Congenital Anomaly -Congenital ano...
44        NaN  authorities, wherever applicable, and is under...       which is not in the visible and accessible par...
45        NaN        supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH                                                the body
46        NaN      medical practitioner and must comply with the             b.  External Congenital Anomaly- Congenital
47        NaN                               following criterion:          anomaly which is in the visible and accessible
48        NaN              i.  Having at least 5 in-patient beds                                       parts of the body
49        NaN   ii.  Having qualified AYUSH medical practitioner       Co-payment means a cost sharing requirement under
50        NaN                          in charge round the clock        a health insurance policy that provides that the
51        NaN                                                NaN       policyholder/insured/proposer will bear a spec...
52        NaN   iii.  Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as                                                     NaN

Table 2:
   Cumulative Bonus shall mean any increase or addition Grace Period means       the specified period        of time
0   in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer with...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
1   associated increase in premium. which a paymen...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
2   Day care centre means any institution establis...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
3   day care treatment of illness and/or injuries ...                  and  coverage        of    Pre  Existing  NaN
4   medical setup with a hospital and which has be...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
..                                                ...                  ...       ...       ...    ...       ...  ...
67  non-availability of room in a hospital. ups, a...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
68  Emergency Care means management for an illness...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
69  injury which results in symptoms which occur s...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
70  and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care ...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN
71  medical practitioner to prevent death or serio...                  NaN       NaN       NaN    NaN       NaN  NaN

[72 rows x 7 columns]

Table 3:
                       iv.  it continues indefinitely  Unnamed: 0 Unnamed: 1  Unnamed: 2 Health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained
0                 v.  It recurs or is likely to recur         NaN        NaN         NaN  for pre-existing conditions and time bound exc...     
1                                                 NaN         NaN        NaN         NaN                             with the same insurer.     
2                Injury means any accidental physical      bodily      harm,         NaN                                                NaN     
3   excluding illness or disease solely and direct...         NaN        NaN         NaN    Network Provider means hospitals or health care     
4   by external, violent, visible and evident mean...         NaN        NaN         NaN  providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or joint...     
5   verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.         NaN        NaN         NaN  insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an     
6                                                 NaN         NaN        NaN         NaN                    insured by a cashless facility.     
7   Intensive Care Unit means an identified sectio...         NaN        NaN         NaN                                                NaN     
8   or wing of a hospital which is under the constant         NaN        NaN         NaN  Non-Network Provider means any Hospital, day care     
9   supervision of a dedicated medical practitione...         NaN        NaN         NaN  centre or other provider that is not part of t...     
10                which is specially equipped for the  continuous        NaN         NaN  Notification of claim means the process of int...     
11  monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a         NaN        NaN         NaN     claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the     
12  critical condition, or require life support fa...         NaN        NaN         NaN                  recognized modes of communication     
13  where the level of care and supervision is con...         NaN        NaN         NaN  OPD treatment is one in which the Insured visi...     
14  more sophisticated and intensive than in the o...         NaN        NaN         NaN  clinic / hospital or associated facility like ...     
15                                    and other wards         NaN        NaN         NaN  room for diagnosis and treatment based on the ...     
16  ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the am...         NaN        NaN         NaN  of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not ...     
17   charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which         NaN        NaN         NaN                          a day care or in-patient.     
18  shall include the expenses for ICU bed, genera...         NaN        NaN         NaN  Portability means the right accorded to an ind...     
19  support services provided to any ICU patient i...         NaN        NaN         NaN  health insurance policyholder/proposers (inclu...     
20  monitoring devices, critical care nursing and ...         NaN        NaN         NaN  members under family cover), to transfer the c...     
21                                           charges.         NaN        NaN         NaN  gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound     
22                          Maternity expenses means;         NaN        NaN         NaN    exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer     
23  a.  medical treatment expenses traceable to ch...         NaN        NaN         NaN  Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailm...     
24              (including complicated deliveries and   caesarean        NaN         NaN                                  injury or disease     
25         sections incurred during Hospitalisation);         NaN        NaN         NaN  a.  That is/ are diagnosed by a physician with...     
26  b.  expenses towards lawful medical terminatio...         NaN        NaN         NaN   months prior to the effective date of the policy     
27                pregnancy during the policy period.         NaN        NaN         NaN      issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or     
28  Medical Advice means any consultation or advic...         NaN        NaN         NaN      b.  For which medical advice or treatment was     
29  a Medical Practitioner including the issuance ...         NaN        NaN         NaN      recommended by, or received from, a physician     
30            prescription or follow-up prescription.         NaN        NaN         NaN  within 48 months prior to the effective date o...     
31              Medical Expenses means those expenses        that         an         NaN  policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatem...     
32  Insured Person has necessarily and actually in...         NaN        NaN         NaN        Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means     
33  for medical treatment on account of Illness or...         NaN        NaN         NaN  medical expenses incurred during predefined nu...     
34  on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as lo...         NaN        NaN         NaN    of days immediately after the Insured Person is     
35    are no more than would have been payable if the         NaN        NaN         NaN      discharged from the hospital, provided that :     
36  Insured Person had not been insured and no mor...         NaN        NaN         NaN  a.  Such Medical Expenses are for the same con...     
37  other hospitals or doctors in the same localit...         NaN        NaN         NaN  for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation...     
38       have charged for the same medical treatment.         NaN        NaN         NaN                                      required, and     
39           Medically Necessary Treatment is defined          as        any         NaN  b.  The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such     
40  treatment, tests medication or stay in hospita...         NaN        NaN         NaN     Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance     
41                        of a stay in Hospital which         NaN        NaN         NaN                                           Company.     
42  1.  Is required for the medical management of the         NaN        NaN         NaN         Pre-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means     
43          illness or Injury suffered by the insured         NaN        NaN         NaN  medical expenses incurred during predefined nu...     
44  2.  Must not exceed the level of care necessar...         NaN        NaN         NaN  of days preceding the hospitalization of the i...     
45     provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical         NaN        NaN         NaN                             person, provided that:     
46               care in scope, duration or intensity         NaN        NaN         NaN  a.  Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the...     
47                   3.  Must have been prescribed by   a Medical        NaN         NaN           condition for which the Insured Person’s     
48                                       practitioner         NaN        NaN         NaN                  Hospitalisation was required, and     
49  4.  Must conform to the professional standard ...         NaN        NaN         NaN  b.  The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such     
50  accepted in international medical practice or ...         NaN        NaN         NaN     Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance     
51                         medical community in India         NaN        NaN         NaN                                           Company.     
52                 Migration means the right accorded   to health        NaN         NaN      Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid     

Table 4:
   Unnamed: 0                   Reasonable and Customary Charges  ... Unnamed: 3 the Policy Schedule and is/are hereinafter referred as
0         NaN                  charges for services or supplies,  ...        NaN                  “You”/“Your”/ “Yours”/ “Yourself”    
1         NaN                  standard charges for the specific  ...        NaN  Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a v...    
2         NaN                     consistent with the prevailing  ...        NaN  registration from the Medical Council of any S...    
3         NaN                 geographical area for identical or  ...        NaN  Medical Council of India or Council for Indian...    
4         NaN  taking into account the nature of Illness/inju...  ...        NaN  or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of ...    
..        ...                                                ...  ...        ...                                                ...    
60        NaN  brother(s), sister(s) and dependent parent(s) ...  ...        NaN                                                NaN    
61        NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN          Insured Person(s) in the Policy Schedule.    
62        NaN                                           insured.  ...        NaN                                                NaN    
63        NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN  We/ Our/ Ours/ Us means the ICICI Lombard General    
64        NaN                    Insured/Insured Person(s) means  ...        NaN                                                NaN    

[65 rows x 8 columns]

Table 5:
       the procedures set out in this Policy wording.  ...  a.  For the purpose of this cover, “Associated medical
0   This Policy covers Allopathic and AYUSH treatm...  ...         expenses” shall include room rent, nursing     
1   in India ONLY. Any expenses incurred outside t...  ...        charges, operation theatre charges, fees of     
2                         period will NOT be covered.  ...      medica l pract i t ioner  inc luding surgeon/     
3                                                 NaN  ...  anaesthetist / specialist within the same hosp...     
4   Any claims made under any of the benefits ment...  ...                                                NaN     
5                                                 NaN  ...     where the insured person has been admitted and     
6         below (except Care management program, Care  ...                                                NaN     
7                                                 NaN  ...          will not include the cost of pharmacy and     
8   management plus program,) will impact eligibil...  ...                                                NaN     
9                                                 NaN  ...     consumables, cost of implants, medical devices     
10                            Additional Sum Insured.  ...                                                NaN     
11                                                NaN  ...                           and cost of diagnostics.     
12  Any unutilized annual sum insured/tele-consult...  ...                                                NaN     
13                                                NaN  ...  b.  Proportionate deductions are not applicabl...     
14  consultations/benefits cannot be carried forwa...  ...                                                NaN     
15                                                NaN  ...                                        ICU charges     
16                                  next policy year.  ...                                                NaN     
17                                                NaN  ...  c.  Proportionate deductions shall not be appl...     
18                                         Base Cover  ...                                                NaN     
19                                                NaN  ...  for hospitals which do not follow differential...     
20                           1.  In Patient Treatment  ...          or for those expenses in respect of which     
21  We will cover the following Medical Expenses i...  ...   differential billing is not adopted based on the     
22  respect of Hospitalization of the Insured Pers...  ...                                     room category.     
23  Policy Period, up to the Annual Sum Insured sp...  ...    Expenses associated with automation machine for     
24              Policy Schedule against this Benefit:  ...           peritoneal dialysis shall not be payable     
25  i.  Room Rent up to Twin sharing room (for Ann...  ...                                                NaN     
26  Insured below ̀  10 Lacs and Single private AC...  ...   exceed the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum     
27              annual sum insured ̀  10L and above);  ...  insured / cumulative bonus (if any) as specifi...     
28                  ii.  Intensive Care Unit Charges;  ...              Policy Schedule against this Benefit.     
29                     iii.  Qualified Nurse charges;  ...                                                NaN     
30                 iv.  Medical Practitioner’s Fees ;  ...                                                NaN     
31  v.  Anaesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre  ...                                                NaN     
32   charges, medicines, drugs and consumables (other  ...                                                NaN     
33  than those specified in the list of excluded e...  ...  The Day Care Treatment is for Medically Necessary     
34                       (non-medical) in Annexure I;  ...                                         Treatment.     
35  vi.  Surgical  appl iances and prosthet ic  de...  ...  The Day Care Treatment follows the written adv...     
36    recommended in writing by the attending Medical  ...                              Medical Practitioner.     
37  Practitioner and that are used intra operative...  ...                                                NaN     
38                                                NaN  ...   The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and     
39                              a Surgical Procedure;  ...                                                NaN     
40                                                NaN  ...                                 Customary Charges.     
41  vii.  Cost of investigative tests or prescribe...  ...                                                NaN     
42                                                NaN  ...   We will also cover Medical Expenses incurred for     
43  procedures directly related to the Injury/Illn...  ...                                                NaN     
44                                                NaN  ...  procedures including but not limited to intrav...     
45          which the Insured Person is Hospitalized;  ...                                                NaN     
46                                                NaN  ...    chemotherapy, radiotherapy, hemodialysis or any     
47  We will consider a claim under this Benefit, s...  ...  other therapeutic procedure which requires a p...     
48                                         following:  ...      specialized observation or medical care after     
49  i.  The Hospitalization is for Medically Neces...  ...                       completion of the procedure.     
50                                         Treatment.  ...     We will not cover any Out Patient Treatment or     
51  ii.  The hospitalization warrants inpatient ad...  ...            diagnostic services under this Benefit.     
52                  view of active line of treatment.  ...    Expenses associated with automation machine for     
53  iii.  The Hospitalization commences and contin...  ...           peritoneal dialysis shall not be payable     
54          written advice of a Medical Practitioner.  ...                                                NaN     
55  iv.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasona...  ...  exceed the Sum Insured and additional sum insu...     

[56 rows x 4 columns]

Table 6:
    Sr. No.                          Treatment/Procedure  Unnamed: 0  ...    claim            under “Inpatient
0       1.0   Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
1       NaN                intensity focused ultrasound)         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN    Medical
2       2.0        Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to         NaN  ...      NaN         provided       that
3       NaN                        be given as injection         NaN  ...      NaN       in writing     by the
4       NaN                                          NaN         NaN  ...      NaN           and is  Medically
5       3.0   Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
6       NaN                                          NaN         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
7       NaN        treatment or holmium laser treatment)         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
8       NaN                                          NaN         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
9       4.0  Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
10      NaN               for bone marrow transplant for         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
11      NaN                                          NaN         NaN  ...     care               at   home are
12      NaN                    haematological conditions         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
13      NaN                                          NaN         NaN  ...  of post  hospitalization        NaN
14      5.0                           Balloon Sinuplasty         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
15      6.0                            Oral Chemotherapy         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
16      7.0                           Robotic surgeries*         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
17      NaN                                          NaN         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
18      8.0                 Stereotactic radio Surgeries         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
19      NaN                                          NaN         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
20      9.0                       Deep Brain stimulation         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
21     10.0                     Intra vitreal injections         6.0  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
22     11.0                      Bronchical Thermoplasty         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN
23     12.0    IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)         NaN  ...      NaN              NaN        NaN

[24 rows x 9 columns]

Table 7:
   We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of  Unnamed: 0 e.  Prior approval from Us has been taken. The Home care
0   the Domiciliary Hospitalization of the Insured...                NaN  treatment is availed only on a cashless basis,...      
1            during the Policy Period provided that :                NaN  availability of our empanelled service provide...      
2                                                 NaN                NaN  Kindly visit our website for cities/locations ...      
3   i.  The Domiciliary Hospitalization is for Med...                NaN                                                NaN      
4                                                 NaN                NaN                            services are available.      
5                                Necessary Treatment.                NaN                                                NaN      
6                                                 NaN                NaN  f.  Treatment availed is not categorized under...      
7   ii.  The Domiciliary Hospitalization commences...                NaN                                                NaN      
8                                                 NaN                NaN              any form of non- allopathic treatment      
9        continues on the written advice of a Medical                NaN                                                NaN      
10                                      Practitioner.                NaN  g.  Such treatment cannot be provided on outpa...      
11  iii.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reason...                NaN  However in case of unavailability of our empan...      
12                                 Customary Charges.                NaN  provider in the insured person’s location, in ...      
13                                                NaN                NaN  person intends to avail the services of non-ne...      
14  iv.  The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues...                NaN                                                NaN      
15                                                NaN                NaN  provider and claims for reimbursement, a prior...      
16  consecutive days in which case We will make pa...                NaN                                                NaN      
17                                                NaN                NaN  from Us needs to be taken before availing such...      
18  under this Benefit in respect of Medical Expenses                NaN                                                NaN      
19  incur red  f rom the  f i rs t  day  of  Domic...                NaN  In case the insured person breaches the condit...      
20                                   Hospitalization.                NaN  approval or fails to take the prior written ap...      
21                                                NaN                NaN  we are not liable to settle any claim under th...      
22  v.  Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in ...                NaN                                                NaN      
23   exceed the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum                NaN  For the purpose of this benefit, Home care tre...      
24  insured /cumulative bonus (if any) as specifie...                NaN                                           include:      
25              Policy Schedule against this Benefit.                NaN  a.  Diagnostic tests underwent at home as advi...      
26  We shall not be liable to pay for any claim un...                NaN                               medical practitioner      
27  which arises directly or indirectly from or in...                NaN   b.  Medicines prescribed in writing by a medical      
28                              any of the following:                NaN                                       practitioner      
29  a)  Asthma, bronchitis, tonsillitis and upper ...                NaN  c.  Consultation charges of the medical practi...      
30  tract infection including laryngitis and phary...                NaN  d.  Nursing charges if advised by the medical ...      
31                         cough and cold, influenza;                NaN                                                NaN      
32                                                NaN                NaN  Any expenses payable during the Policy period ...      
33                b)  Arthritis, gout and rheumatism;                NaN  aggregate exceed the Annual Sum Insured and ad...      
34                         c)  Ailments of spine/disc                NaN  sum insured /cumulative bonus (if any) as spec...      
35      d)  Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome;                9.0                   In Patient AYUSH Hospitalization      
36                             e)  Any liver disease;                NaN  We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in...      
37                                   f)  Peptic ulcer                NaN  the Insured Person’s AYUSH Treatment during th...      
38                                                NaN                NaN  Period up to the Annual Sum Insured specified ...      
39  g) Diarrhea and all type of dysenteries, inclu...                NaN                                                NaN      
40                                                NaN                NaN                            Schedule provided that:      
41                                   gastroenteritis;                NaN                                                NaN      
42                                                NaN                NaN  i.  The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonab...      
43               h)  Diabetes mellitus and insipidus;                NaN                                                NaN      
44                                                NaN                NaN                                 Customary Charges.      
45                                      i)  Epilepsy;                NaN                                                NaN      
46                                                NaN                NaN  ii.  The Insured Person is Hospitalized for AYUSH      
47                                  j)  Hypertension;                NaN  Treatment at a AYUSH hospital or an AYUSH Day-...      
48                          k)  Pyrexia of any origin                NaN                                            centre.      

Table 8:
   ii.  Any expenses incurred for the purpose of evaluation or  Unnamed: 0                                         Unnamed: 1  ...        provided      that  the
0                                      investigation.                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
1                                                 NaN                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
2                  10.  Domestic road ambulance cover                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
3                                                 NaN                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
4   We will cover the expenses incurred on road am...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
5                                                 NaN                  NaN                                                 b.  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
6   services which are offered by a healthcare or ...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
7                                                 NaN                  NaN                                                NaN  ...  by a competent       NaN  NaN
8   service provider and which have been used duri...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
9                                                 NaN                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
10  Policy Period to transfer the Insured Person t...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
11  Hospital with adequate emergency facilities fo...                  NaN                                                 c.  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
12        provision of Emergency Care, provided that:                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
13  •  Our maximum liability under this Benefit fo...                  NaN                                                 d.  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
14  claim arising during the Policy Year will be r...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
15         1% of the Annual Sum insured maximum up to                  NaN                                                NaN  ...     Person from       NaN  NaN
16                                           `10,000;                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
17  •  We have accepted a claim under “Inpatient t...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
18      in respect of the Insured Person for the same                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN  expenses  NaN
19  Accident/Illness for which road ambulance serv...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
20                                      were availed.                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
21                                                NaN                  NaN                                                 e.  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
22  •  This Benefit includes and is limited to the...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...         for the      same  NaN
23              transportation of the Insured Person:                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
24  a)  From the place of injury/illness to the ne...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
25                                           hospital                  NaN                                                 f.  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
26    b)  To the nearest Hospital with higher medical                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
27  facilities which is prepared to admit the Insured                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
28           Person and provide the necessary medical                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
29          services if  such medical services cannot                  NaN                                12. Base Co-payment  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
30  satisfactorily be provided at a Hospital where...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
31                                                NaN                  NaN  This policy will be subject to 50% base co-pay...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
32       Insured Person is situated, and only if that                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
33                                                NaN                  NaN  He/She shall be liable to pay 50% of admissibl...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
34  transportation has been prescribed in writing ...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
35                                                NaN                  NaN  amount of each and every claim. Base Co-paymen...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
36          Medical Practitioner and is for Medically                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
37                                                NaN                  NaN  chosen cannot be changed mid-term. Modificatio...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
38                               Necessary Treatment.                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
39                                                NaN                  NaN                                            payment  ...         subject       NaN   to
40  c)  From a Hospital to the nearest diagnostic ...                  NaN  underwriting. In case, base co-payment is redu...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
41  during the course of Hospitalization for advanced                  NaN  renewal, fresh waiting periods shall be applic...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
42   diagnostic treatment in circumstances where such                  NaN               modified portion of base co-payment.  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
43  facility is not available in the existing Hosp...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
44                                                NaN                  NaN                                                 i.  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
45  •  The ambulance / service provider providing the                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
46  services be a registered provider with road tr...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
47                                         authority.                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
48  Any expenses in relation to transportation of ...                  NaN                                                ii.  ...      applicable   in case  NaN
49  Person from Hospital to the Insured Person’s r...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
50  while transferring an Insured Person after he/...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
51                                                NaN                  NaN      13.  Cumulative Bonus/ Additional Sum Insured  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
52  discharged from the Hospital are not payable u...                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
53                                           Benefit.                  NaN  We will provide a Cumulative Bonus of 10% of t...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
54                                                NaN                  NaN  Sum insured at the end of each Policy Year if ...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
55                                 11.  Air Ambulance                  NaN                                                NaN  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
56                                                NaN                  NaN  Policy has been claim free and is continuously...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
57  We will cover the expenses up to the Annual su...                  NaN  with Us. The Cumulative Bonus will not be accu...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN
58  incurred on air ambulance services in respect ...                  NaN  more than 100% of the Annual Sum insured under...  ...             NaN       NaN  NaN

[59 rows x 10 columns]

Table 9:
         Annual     Accumulate                                    Revised Revised                                         Unnamed: 0
0  Floater  Sum   d Cumulative  vii.  For any single claim during a Policy Yea...                                                NaN
1       Insured         bonus/                 policy split Insuredo f Cumulative   claim amount payable shall not exceed the sum of
2           NaN     Additional                          to individual each bonus/                         •  The Annual Sum insured;
3           NaN     SumInsured                policies with individual Additional                                                NaN
4           NaN  (after5 claim                       Annual Sum policy SumInsured       •  additional sum insured /Cumulative Bonus;
5           NaN    freey ears)                                 Insured of ofe ach  viii. The Reset Benefit will not be available ...
6           NaN            NaN                            10 Lacs each individual  Injury or related complications including but ...
7           NaN            NaN                                             policy  to any relapse within 45 days in respect of wh...
8       20  Lac        10  Lac                                       10 Lac 5 Lac  claim has been paid in that Policy Year for th...

Table 10:
                                  Unnamed: 0  Unnamed: 1  Unnamed: 2        payable, shall not exceed the sum of:
0    Annual  Sum Accumulated Revised Revised         NaN         NaN                                          NaN
1  Insured Cumulative Annual Sum Accumulated         NaN         NaN                    •  The Annual Sum Insured
2       bonus/ Cumulative Annual Sum Insured         NaN         NaN  •  additional sum insured /Cumulative Bonus
3                  Additional bonus/ Insured         NaN         NaN                                          NaN
4                     Sum Insured Additional         NaN         NaN                         •  Reset Sum Insured
5                                 reduced to         NaN         NaN                                          NaN
6        (after5  claim ` SumInsured 10 Lacs         NaN         NaN                                          NaN
7                                freey ears)         NaN         NaN                                          NaN
8              20  Lac 10 Lac 10  Lac 5  Lac         NaN         NaN                                          NaN

Table 11:
   iii.  In a floater policy as specified in the Policy Schedule,  Unnamed: 0 shall be calculated on the Annual Sum Insured of the
0   the Cumulative Bonus so accrued during the pre...                     NaN                        last completed Policy Year.  
1   Policy Year(s) will only be available to those...                     NaN  xi. In the event of a Claim under the Policy d...  
2   Person(s) who were insured in previous Policy ...                     NaN  subsequent Policy Year, the accrued cumulative...  
3   and continue to be insured with Us in the subs...                     NaN                              shall not be reduced.  
4                                     Policy Year(s).                     NaN                                 14.  Reset Benefit  
5   iv.  Cumulative Bonus will not be added if the...                     NaN  We will reset the Annual Sum insured up to 100...  
6     renewed with Us by the end of the Grace Period.                     NaN  Annual Sum insured unlimited times, for all fu...  
7   v.  Cumulative bonus can be utilised only when...                     NaN  within the same policy not related to the illn...  
8         Annual Sum Insured is completely exhausted.                     NaN  injury for which a claim has been paid for the...  
9   vi.  If the Policy Period is two or three year...                     NaN  person in a Policy Year as stated in the Polic...  
10  Cumulative Bonus that has accrued for the firs...                     NaN                                     provided that:  
11  Policy Year will be credited at the end of the...                     NaN  i.  The Annual Sum insured including additiona...  
12  Policy Year as the case may be and will be ava...                     NaN  insured /Cumulative Bonus (if any) in respect ...  
13     any claims made in the subsequent Policy Year.                     NaN  Insured Person is insufficient as a result of ...  
14  vii.  If the Insured Persons in the expiring p...                     NaN                   claims paid in that Policy Year.  
15  on an individual basis as specified in the Policy                     NaN  ii.  The total amount of reset will not exceed...  
16    Schedule and there is an accumulated Cumulative                     NaN                  Sum Insured for that policy year.  
17   Bonus for each Insured Person under the expiring                     NaN  iii.  The Reset Benefit will be applied only i...  
18  policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed                     NaN  made and admissible under “Inpatient Treatment...  
19  with Us on a floater policy basis as specified...                     NaN                               “Daycare Procedure”.  
20    Policy Schedule then the Cumulative Bonus to be                     NaN                                                NaN  
21                                                NaN                     NaN  iv.  The Reset Benefit will not be triggered f...  
22  carried forward for credit in such Renewed Pol...                     NaN                                                NaN  
23                                                NaN                     NaN                       made during the Policy Year.  
24       be the lowest among all the Insured Persons.                     NaN                                                NaN  
25                                                NaN                     NaN  v.  The Reset benefit will be triggered only o...  

Table 12:
  been made in respect of all Insured Person(s) in the x. If the Annual Sum Insured under the Policy has been
0                            expiring policy period.    increased at the time of Renewal the Cumulativ...    

Table 13:
                                          Unnamed: 0           Unnamed: 1   Annual Sum Insured           Unnamed: 2
0    Procedures/Medical Conditions/Ailments/Diseases                  NaN                  NaN                  NaN
1                                                NaN             3L/4L/5L          10L/15L/20L                 >20L
2                              Treatment of cataract  Up to ` 25,000/ eye  Up to ` 50,000/ eye  Up to ` 75,000/ eye
3  Treatment of each and every ailment/procedure ...                  NaN                  NaN                  NaN
4  Treatment of cerebrovascular and cardiovascula...                  NaN                  NaN                  NaN
5  Treatment/surgeries for cancer(including chemo...                  NaN                  NaN                  NaN
6                                                NaN           ` 2,00,000           ` 3,50,000           ` 5,00,000
7  Treatment of other renal complications and dis...                  NaN                  NaN                  NaN
8  Treatment for breakage of long bones/Joint rep...                  NaN                  NaN                  NaN
9  Robotic surgeries for any ailment/condition/di...           ` 1,00,000           ` 1,75,000           ` 2,50,000

Table 14:
                                        helps prevent  ...  specialist or a general physician will have to be
0   covered under  thepolicy should have be vaccin...  ...                       borne by the Insured Person.
1   past one year (1 year) from policy start date ...  ...  We shall not be liable for any discrepancy in the
2   discount. i.e. if policy start date is 1st Jan...  ...           information provided under this Benefit.
3                                     insured persons  ...                                                NaN
4                                                 NaN  ...  Choosing the services under this Benefit is pu...
..                                                ...  ...                                                ...
70                   Insured Person in a policy year.  ...                                                NaN
71  •  This service will be available 24 hours a d...  ...                                                NaN
72                                365 days in a year.  ...                                                NaN
73                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN
74  • We/Medical Practitioner/Healthcare professional  ...                                                NaN

[75 rows x 8 columns]

Table 15:
                           4.  End stage lung Failure  Unnamed: 0  Unnamed: 1  ...    session(s)     with    a
0      5.  Primary(Idiopathic) pulmonary Hypertension         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN
1                                                 NaN         NaN         NaN  ...       such as  but not  NaN
2                                    Liver conditions         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN
3                                                 NaN         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN
4                         6.  End stage liver Failure         NaN         NaN  ...  and problems      NaN  NaN
..                                                ...         ...         ...  ...           ...      ...  ...
60  Maximum of 12 sessions will be provided per in...         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN
61                                                NaN         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN
62                          person per policy period.         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN
63                                                NaN         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN
64  The e-consultation shall be availed only throu...         NaN         NaN  ...           NaN      NaN  NaN

[65 rows x 9 columns]

Table 16:
                              Medical Tests Favorable Findings that need                                         Unnamed: 0
0                                                 NaN                NaN  steps per day for atleast 15 days in a month. ...
1                                            findings        improvement                                                NaN
2                                                 NaN                NaN  wellness points that can be accrued by achievi...
3                                  Glycosylated  < 6%     >6 and up to7%                                                NaN
4                                                 NaN                NaN  steps is 1500 per insured person per policy year.
5                                 Haemoglobin (HbA1c)                NaN                                                NaN
6   Our mobile application will have to be downloa...      >100 and < or                                                NaN
7                                   Lipoprotein (LDL)        = 190 mg/dl  30 days of the policy start date to avail the ...
8                        High Density > or = 40 mg/dl     > 20 mg/dl and  average step count completed by an Insured per...
9                                   Lipoprotein (HDL)          <40 mg/dl           be monitored on this mobile application.
10                  Serum cholesterol < or = 200mg/dl      >200 and < or  Each wellness point will be valued at INR 0.20...
11                                                NaN         =300 mg/dl  points so earned can be redeemed against any s...
12                Serum Triglycerides <or = 150 mg/dl        > 150 and <  under discounts as mentioned in “discounts on ...
13                                                NaN         = 250mg/dl               products” on our mobile application.
14                     S. Creatinine < or = 1.3 mg/dl        > 1.3 mg/dl      Wellness points Maximum wellness  Rupee Value

Table 17:
                      S. Creatinine < or = 1.3 mg/dl  > 1.3 mg/dl  Unnamed: 0          Wellness points        Maximum wellness      Rupee Value
0  The insured person shall be awarded wellness p...          NaN         NaN              accumulated      points awarded per   of Accumulated
1  B for each laboratory test mentioned below in ...          NaN         NaN                      NaN  person per policy year  wellness points
2  the laboratory test are favourable as detailed...          NaN         NaN               Outcome of                    1500              300
3                                            Table B          NaN         NaN        Preventive health                     NaN              NaN
4           Medical Tests Wellness points awarded in          NaN         NaN                check-ups                     NaN              NaN
5                        case of favourable findings          NaN         NaN  Participation in Yoga /                    1500              300
6                   Glycosylated Haemoglobin (HbA1c)        500.0         NaN  Meditation / Completion                     NaN              NaN
7                                                NaN          NaN         NaN        of Targeted steps                     NaN              NaN
8                      Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL)        200.0         NaN                      NaN                     NaN              NaN
9                                                NaN          NaN         NaN                    Total                    3000              600

Table 18:
                      Medical Tests   Wellness points awarded in  Unnamed: 0                                          check-ups  Unnamed: 1
0                               NaN  case of favourable findings         NaN                       Participation in Yoga / 1500       300.0
1  Glycosylated Haemoglobin (HbA1c)                          500         NaN                            Meditation / Completion         NaN
2                               NaN                          NaN         NaN                                  of Targeted steps         NaN
3     Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL)                          200         NaN                                                NaN         NaN
4                               NaN                          NaN         NaN                                         Total 3000       600.0
5    High Density Lipoprotein (HDL)                          200         NaN                                                NaN         NaN
6                 Serum cholesterol                          200         7.0                                      Medical Vault         NaN
7               Serum Triglycerides                          200         NaN  The insured person can upload His/Her health r...         NaN
8                  Serum Creatinine                          200         NaN  our mobile application so as to protect them f...         NaN
9                             Total                         1500         NaN  theft. These health records can then be viewed...         NaN

Table 19:
   centres and will be guided by the health coach for person 250 wellness points. Each yoga session/ meditation
0                                           the same.  session must last 30 minutes or more and the m...       
1           In case the insured person is desirous of  wellness points that can be accrued under this...       
2   undergoing laboratory tests at a diagnostic ce...                per insured person per policy year.       
3   of their choice which is not empanelled with u...  Please Note: The insured persons can join a vi...       
4        insured person will have to bear the charges  yoga/meditation class or visit an actual yoga/...       
5    associated with the actual costs of the mid-term     centre. The expenses associated with the class       
6        assessment diagnostic tests/ visit charges /  fees/membership fees/tutor or instructor fees ...       
7                             collection charges etc.  have to be borne by the insured person. Proof ...       
8                                                 NaN  of fees and certificate of completion of sessi...       
9     The insured person will also have to provide us                                                NaN       
10                                                NaN  to be provided to us in order for insured pers...       
11           with the laboratory reports of the below                                                NaN       
12                                                NaN                                   wellness points.       
13   mentioned medical tests/investigations conducted                                                NaN       
14       within the policy period for Us to award the  Alternately, in case the Insured Person is kee...       
15                                   wellness points.    targeted steps instead of participation in yoga       

Table 20:
    Unnamed: 0                                   •  Scheduling an  ... Unnamed: 1 •  The ambulance service is availed within the same
0          NaN                    Practitioner empanelled with Us  ...        NaN                                               city 
1          NaN    •  Scheduling appointments for a second opinion  ...        NaN  •  This is an assistance service and the expen... 
2          NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN      the same will have to be borne by the insured 
3          NaN  •  Providing suitable options with respect to ...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
4          NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN       person or can be claimed under domestic road 
5          NaN                                  well as providing  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
6          NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN   ambulance cover( if inpatient treatment claim is 
7          NaN                               wherever applicable.  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
8          NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                            found to be admissible) 
9          NaN                         •  Scheduling appointments  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
10         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN             Process to avail Ambulance Assistance: 
11         NaN                                empanelled with us.  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
12         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN  a)  On calling Our helpline number provided be... 
13         NaN  •  Providing information, assistance and  faci...  ...        NaN  trained customer service executive (CSE) will ... 
14         NaN                    door step delivery of medicines  ...        NaN    Insured person relevant questions to assess the 
15         NaN    •  Providing preventive information on ailments  ...        NaN                                         situation. 
16         NaN  •  Providing guidance on post Hospitalization ...  ...        NaN  b)  The call may be redirected to a qualified ... 
17         NaN                 as Physiotherapy/ Nursing at home.  ...        NaN  Practitioner in order to evaluate the requirem... 
18         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN  ambulance with Advanced Life Support based on the 
19         NaN  Please note that services provided under this ...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
20         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                        Insured Person’s condition. 
21         NaN  solely for assistance, and should not be const...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
22         NaN  The below mentioned details are to be made ava...  ...        NaN                                                 c) 
23         NaN  for availing the services:  Medical Practition...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
24         NaN  and Health Assistance services will not includ...  ...        NaN  1.  UHID of Insured Person, as provided on the... 
25         NaN                                for any independent  ...        NaN                                              Card. 
26         NaN                                charges incurred on  ...        NaN           2.  Contact number of the Insured Person 
27         NaN  recommendation, and such charges are to be bor...  ...        NaN                     3.  Location of Insured Person 
28         NaN                                    Insured Person.  ...        NaN               How to Call an Ambulance? (Via Call) 
29         NaN  For all facilitation services provided under t...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
30         NaN  role shall be limited to assistance only and t...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
31         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                                   An IVRS will ask 
32         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                                       Call will be 
33         NaN  expenses associated with the actual service sh...  ...        NaN  you to select  option Call 18001028136 answere... 
34         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                                 1or 2 depending on 
35         NaN                    be borne by the insured person.  ...        NaN                    to reach the CSE & details like 
36         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                                       requirement. 
37         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                       Emergency name, UHID, nature 
38         NaN  This service is available on our mobile applic...  ...        NaN  Dial 1 for Medical Response Centre of emergenc... 
39         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                                          Ambulance 
40         NaN  calling on 040-66274205 (please note that this...  ...        NaN                                   be askedServices 
41         NaN  subject to change) from 8am to 8pm from Monday to  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
42         NaN                   Saturday except public holidays.  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
43         NaN  By availing this service, the Insured person a...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
44         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                                    Patient will be 
45         NaN  no objection to the health records being maint...  ...        NaN          Doctor may taken to the nearest Emergency 
46         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                        accompany patient Ambulance 
47         NaN                             for internal use only.  ...        NaN     hospital as per the in the ambulance Transport 
48         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                                predefined hospital 
49         NaN                                                NaN  ...        NaN                            if required will arrive 
50         NaN  While deciding to obtain the above services, t...  ...        NaN                                      network chart 
51         NaN  person(s) expressly notes and agrees that it i...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
52         NaN  them to decide whether to obtain these service...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
53         NaN  decide the use (if any) to which these service...  ...        NaN                                                NaN 
54         NaN                                               for.  ...        NaN                                          Ambulance 
55         9.0                               Ambulance Assistance  ...        NaN         pick up & drop Click on emergency CSE does 

[56 rows x 8 columns]

Table 21:
   health service providers. These discounts can be viewed on  Unnamed: 0 In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us,
0   our mobile application and one can redeem the ...                 NaN  the insured person can avail the benefit as me...      
1   points earned from Care Management Program (ei...                 NaN  under claim protector. If a claim has been acc...      
2   through favourable findings on health check-up or                 NaN  the inpatient hospitalization cover, then the ...      
3   participation in Yoga/ meditations sessions/ a...                 NaN  are not payable under the claim as per the Lis...      
4   targeted steps per month) for availing discoun...                 NaN  items released by IRDAI that is related to the...      
5   product terms and conditions and subject to av...                 NaN  claim will become payable. The maximum claim p...      
6    Terms and Conditions for Care Management Program                 NaN  under this benefit shall be limited to Annual ...      
7                                                 NaN                 NaN                                 under your policy.      
8   • There shall be no minimum wellness points li...                 NaN                                                NaN      
9   redemption against health related deals and di...                 NaN  Base Co-payment as opted by the Insured Person...      
10                 offered on our mobile application.                 NaN          policy shall be applicable for this cover      
11  • The Insured Person(s) can choose to carry fo...                 2.0                    Modification of Base Co-payment      
12  wellness points for 3 years, in case they do n...                 NaN  In consideration of payment of additional prem...      
13  redeem the same provided the policy is continu...                 NaN  The insured person will have the option to red...      
14  renewed without any break. The wellness points so                 NaN  co-payment from 50% to 40% or 30% or 20% and H...      
15  accrued shall have to be redeemed at the end o...                 NaN  shall be liable to pay the percentage (%) of a...      
16                                       Policy year.                 NaN                    amount of each and every claim.      
17  • The Insured Person shall notify Us and submi...                 NaN  Base Co-payment once chosen cannot be changed ...      
18  relevant documents, reports, receipts as and when                 NaN   term. Modification of co-payment may happen only      
19   required by us within 60 days of undertaking any                 NaN  during renewal subject to underwriting.  In ca...      
20  activity for us to reward appropriate wellness...                 NaN  payment is reduced during renewal, fresh waiti...      
21  • In case of expiry of policy and the policy n...                 NaN  shall be applicable on the modified portion of...      
22  renewed, the accrued wellness points may be ca...                 NaN                                           payment.      
23   forward for a period not exceeding three months.                 NaN                                                NaN      
24                                                NaN                 3.0                               Voluntary Deductible      
25     • There shall not be any cash reimbursement or                 NaN                                                NaN      
26                                                NaN                 NaN  In case the Insured person has opted for a vol...      
27   redemption available against the wellness points                 NaN                                                NaN      
28                                                NaN                 NaN  deductible, as specified in the Policy Schedul...      
29                  accumulated by an Insured Person.                 NaN                                                NaN      
30                                                NaN                 NaN  Deductible will be applicable on aggregate bas...      
31  • We or Our Health Service Providers or Our Ne...                 NaN  Hospitalization expenses during the Policy Yea...      
32   Providers do not warrant the validity, accuracy,                 NaN  becomes payable by Us, subject to terms, condi...      
33  completeness, safety, quality, or applicabilit...                 NaN  exclusions of the Policy. The voluntary deduct...      
34  content or anything said or written or any sug...                 NaN  available will be 20% of Annual Sum Insured op...      
35  provided in the course of providing the wellbeing                 NaN                                               You.      
36                                          services.                 NaN                                                NaN      
37                                                NaN                 NaN  i.  In case voluntary deductible has been opte...      
38  • We do not accept any liability towards quali...                 NaN     co-payment shall not be chosen. Zone based co-      
39  services made available by our network providers/                 NaN      payment shall be applicable in case medically      
40  health service providers and are not liable fo...                 NaN    necessary treatment (Except medically necessary      
41             defects or deficiencies on their part.                 NaN  treatment for road traffic accidents) has been...      
42  • Availability of all Services under the care ...                 NaN  a zone higher (Zone A being the highest follow...      
43  program is subject to availability of Health S...                 NaN    Zone B and then Zone C) than the zone for which      
44                provider at the requested location.                 NaN   premium has been paid on issuance of the policy.      
45  • We, Our group entities, or affiliates, their...                 NaN  ii.  The deductible will apply on individual b...      
46  directors, officers, employees, agents, vendor...                 NaN  individual policy and on floater basis in case...      
47  not be responsible for or liable for, any acti...                 NaN                                            policy.      
48       demands, losses, damages, costs, charges and                 NaN  iii.  Deductible once chosen cannot be changed...      

Table 22:
                      Unnamed: 0                                  healthcare goals. Unnamed: 1  ... Unnamed: 5 Sr. No.                                 Procedure
0                            NaN                             The above update shall         be  ...       Your     NaN                                       NaN
1                            NaN                                                NaN        NaN  ...        NaN     1.0                       Drainage of abscess
2                            NaN  consent and after You provide us with contact ...        NaN  ...        NaN     NaN                                       NaN
3                            NaN  Injection including Intramuscular family membe...        NaN  ...        NaN     2.0                                       NaN
4                            NaN  (Per Injection cost)about your health and diet...        NaN  ...        NaN     NaN                                       NaN
5   Intravenous injection(IV) 3.                          Out-patient consultations        NaN  ...        NaN     3.0                                       NaN
6              Sprain Management  We shall cover the Medical Expenses incurred d...        NaN  ...        NaN     4.0                                       NaN
7                            NaN  (Joint movement/ exercise)the Policy period fo...        NaN  ...        NaN     NaN                                       NaN
8                            NaN                       General Medical Practitioner        NaN  ...        NaN     5.0                     Otoscopic examination
9                            NaN  Practitioner or Super Specialist Medical pract...        NaN  ...        NaN     NaN                     (Magnifying otoscopy)
10                           NaN  AYUSH medical practitioner in relation to any ...        NaN  ...        NaN     NaN                                       NaN
11                           NaN                                                NaN        NaN  ...        NaN     6.0  Nasal packing for control of haemorrhage
12                           NaN  contracted or Injury suffered by the Insured P...        NaN  ...        NaN     NaN                                       NaN
13                           NaN                           during the Policy period    subject  ...        NaN     7.0                         Nebulizer therapy
14                           NaN  maximum number of 4 consultations in a Policy ...        NaN  ...        NaN     8.0                   Removal of foreign body

[15 rows x 9 columns]

Table 23:
    Unnamed: 0 assist the Insured person(s) with a personalised diet  Unnamed: 1  Physiotherapy sessions shall be excluded from the
0          NaN  depending on their health concerns. The Health...            NaN                             scope of this benefit.
1          NaN   Professional shall encourage and promote optimal            NaN  Counselling availed for psychiatric ailments o...
2          NaN  health and assist on matters pertaining to fit...            NaN  health issues shall be excluded from the scope...
3          NaN  and nutrition and wellbeing concerns faced by the            NaN  benefit but it shall be covered in E-Counselin...
4          NaN     insured persons. He/She will encourage two way            NaN  d. Base Cover. 18.4) as per the section d. Ben...
5          NaN  communication, provide reminders on healthy ha...            NaN                          covered under the policy.
6          NaN  and reassure the insured person in times of need.            4.0      Routine Diagnostics and Minor Procedure cover
7          NaN  The health care professional will also play a ...            NaN                                                NaN
8          NaN                                                NaN            NaN       We shall cover medical expenses incurred for
9          NaN  role in being the primary point of contact to ...            NaN                                                NaN
10         NaN                                                NaN            NaN  outpatient diagnostic tests recommended by Med...
11         NaN          Person. The Health Care professional will            NaN                                                NaN
12         NaN                                                NaN            NaN  Practitioner under our cashless network availa...
13         NaN     • On-board the Insured Person on to our mobile            NaN  the mobile application in relation to any Illness
14         NaN                                        application            NaN  contracted or Injury suffered by the Insured P...
15         NaN      • Educate the Insured Person on the pertinent            NaN  during the Policy Period and for listed minor ...
16         NaN  features of our mobile application such as but...            NaN  undergone at a general practitioner or special...
17         NaN  limited to availing Tele-consultations, utilis...            NaN  super-specialist medical practitioner by the I...
18         NaN    preventive health check-up, conducting the mid-            NaN  Person during the Policy period maximum up ̀  ...
19         NaN            term assessment, educating about health            NaN       These services shall be provided through our
20         NaN  assistance services, redemption of wellness po...            NaN      Empanelled Health Service Provider subject to
21         NaN                                               etc.            NaN  availability at the time of appointment. The d...
22         NaN  • Give care calls to the Insured Person to und...            NaN     tests shall include but will not be limited to
23         NaN  insured person’s issues surrounding fitness, d...            NaN  h istopatho logy,  b iochemist r y,  hemato logy,
24         NaN  nutrition and wellbeing issues if any and propose            NaN     immunology, microbiology, serology, pathology,
25         NaN                             solutions for the same            NaN  radiology, ultrasound and TMT. Genetic studies...
26         NaN                                                NaN            NaN             excluded from the scope of this cover.
27         2.0                          Update to family members-            NaN                                                NaN
28         NaN                                                NaN            NaN  We may even arrange for diagnostic tests to be...

Table 24:
Empty DataFrame
Columns: [As a part of the enhanced wellness features, your]
Index: []

Table 25:
  In consideration of payment of additional premium, Insured                                  Empanelled Health Service    Provider   subject  to
0  Person can avail the benefits associated with ...                   availability at the time of appointment.     NaN         NaN       NaN NaN
1          management Plus Program as detailed below          This benefit shall also include e-consultation...     NaN         NaN       NaN NaN
2                        1. Health Care Professional                               General Medical Practitioner      or  Specialist  or Super NaN

Table 26:
   standard wordings are specified by IRDAI) Sr. No.                               Procedure                                    Unnamed: 0
0             Code- Excl01: Pre-Existing Diseases  9              Suturing (Staple under LA)                                            1.
1         Expenses related to the treatment of a  10                       Removal of suture                                            a.
2                                                NaN                                     NaN     pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct
3                                                 11                  Stabilization of joint                                           NaN
4                                                NaN                                     NaN     complications shall be excluded until the
5                                                 12             Syringing ear to remove wax             expiry of 24 months of continuous
6                                                 13  Application or removal of plaster cast   coverage after the date of inception of the
7                                                NaN                                     NaN                    first policy with insurer.
8                                                 14                            Laryngoscopy                                           NaN
9                                                NaN                                     NaN  b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the
10                                                15                  Minor wound management                                           NaN

Table 27:
                                             Sr.\rNo.  ... Surgeries/ Procedures (irrespective of any\rillness or diagnosis other than cancers)
0                                                   1  ...                                        Septoplasty                                  
1                                                 NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
2                                                 NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
3                                                 NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
4                                                   2  ...                     Dilatation and curettage (D&C)                                  
5                                                 NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
6                                                 NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
7                                                 NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
8                                                 NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
9                                                   3  ...                   Surgeries for joint replacements                                  
10                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
11                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
12                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
13                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
14                                                  4  ...       Cholecystectomy,Proceduresforbiliary\rstones                                  
15                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
16                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
17                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
18                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
19                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
20                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
21                                                  5  ...  Surgeriesandproceduresrelatedto\rStones in Uri...                                  
22                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
23                                                NaN  ...                                                NaN                                  
24                                                  6  ...                                                NaN                                  
25                                 Retinal detachment  ...                                                NaN                                  
26                                           Glaucoma  ...                                                NaN                                  
27  Usage of intra vitreal injections including bu...  ...                                                NaN                                  

[28 rows x 4 columns]

Table 28:
    Sr.    Organ /Organ                                 Illness/ diagnosis Surgeries/ Procedures (irrespective of any
0   No.          System   (irrespective of treatments medical or surgical)   illness or diagnosis other than cancers)
1     7   Other General  All internal/ external tumors, cysts, nodules,...                                        NaN
2   NaN      conditions                                                NaN                                        NaN
3   NaN  (Applicable to                   Varicose veins & Varicose ulcers                                        NaN
4   NaN       all organ                                                NaN                                        NaN
5   NaN        systems/            Parkinson’s disease/Alzheimer’s disease                                        NaN
6   NaN         organs/                                                NaN                                        NaN
7   NaN     disciplines                                                NaN                                        NaN
8   NaN  whether or not                                                NaN                                        NaN
9   NaN       described                                                NaN                                        NaN
10  NaN          above)                                                NaN                                        NaN

Table 29:
     3.                                a. Expenses related          to        the          treatment  ... to.1          any        admission  primarily  for
0   NaN  mentioned illness within 90 days from the firs...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
1   NaN    commencement date shall be excluded unless they         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
2   NaN                                   are pre-existing         and  disclosed                 at  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
3   NaN                                       underwriting         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
4   NaN                                   i.  Hypertension         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN  as bathing,        dressing,     moving  NaN
5   NaN                                      ii.  Diabetes         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
6   NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
7   NaN                            iii. Cardiac Conditions         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
8   NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
9   NaN  b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
10  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
11  NaN  Person has continuous coverage for more than t...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
12  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
13  NaN                                            months.         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
14  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
15  NaN  c. The within referred waiting period is made ...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
16  NaN  to the enhanced sum insured in the event of gr...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN       to the         surgical  treatment   of
17  NaN                   higher sum insured subsequently.         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
18  4.0                Code- Excl03: 30-day waiting period         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
19  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
20  NaN  a. Expenses related to the treatment of any il...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
21  NaN  30 days from the first policy commencement dat...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
22  NaN  be excluded except claims arising due to an ac...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
23  NaN                     provided the same are covered.         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
24  NaN  b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
25  NaN  Person has Continuous Coverage for more than t...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
26  NaN                                            months.         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
27  NaN  c. The within referred waiting period is made ...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
28  NaN  to the enhanced sum insured in the event of gr...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN       of the        following     severe  co-
29  NaN                    higher sum insured subsequently         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN    following          failure    of less  NaN
30  NaN  Unless covered by way of an appropriate extens...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
31  NaN  optional covers, We shall not be liable to mak...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
32  NaN                          payment under this Policy         NaN         in         connection  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
33  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
34  NaN                                         respect of         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
35  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
36  5.0                               Permanent Exclusions         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
37  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
38  NaN        i. Code- Excl04: Investigation & Evaluation         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
39  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
40  NaN  a. Expenses related to any admission primarily...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
41  NaN                                    diagnostics and  evaluation        NaN           purposes  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
42  NaN                                          excluded.         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
43  NaN                                                NaN         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
44  NaN  b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not relat...         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
45  NaN                                     not incidental          to        the  current diagnosis  ...  NaN          NaN              NaN        NaN  NaN
46  NaN                            treatment are excluded.         NaN        NaN                NaN  ...  NaN           or  plastic surgery     or any  NaN
47  NaN                                ii. Code -  Excl05:   Exclusion        NaN              Name:  ...  NaN   appearance              NaN     unless  for

[48 rows x 17 columns]

Table 30:
   Unnamed: 0 Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to  xv. Code- Excl18: Maternity: Medical treatment expenses
0         NaN   remove a direct and immediate health risk to the     NaN     traceable to childbirth (including complicated 
1         NaN  insured. For this to be considered a medical n...     NaN  deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during 
2         NaN  must be certified by the attending Medical Pra...     NaN  hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy. Exp... 
3         vi.        Code- Excl09: Hazardous or Adventure sports     NaN  towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident... 
4         NaN                                                NaN     NaN  lawful medical termination of pregnancy during... 
..        ...                                                ...     ...                                                ... 
67        NaN                                                NaN     NaN  arising from ionising radiation or contaminati... 
68        NaN         technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI     NaN                                                NaN 
69        NaN                                                NaN     NaN  radioactivity by any nuclear fuel or from any ... 
70        NaN                         iii. Gestational Surrogacy     NaN       waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuel 
71        NaN                      iv. Reversal of sterilization     NaN                                                NaN 

[72 rows x 4 columns]

Table 31:
   Unnamed: 0 19. Treatment for any condition / illness which requires  Unnamed: 1      (Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate
0         NaN                       hormone replacement therapy.               NaN    fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the
1         NaN  20. Artificial life maintenance for the Insure...               NaN     beginning of the financial year in which claim
2         NaN  who has been declared brain dead or in vegetative               NaN                                    has fallen due)
3         NaN                          state as demonstrated by:               4.0                                 Complete Discharge
4         NaN    a.  Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms               NaN  Any payment to the policyholder, insured perso...
..        ...                                                ...               ...                                                ...
65        NaN        last necessary document. ln such cases, the               NaN  insured person or anyone acting on his/her beh...
66        NaN    Company shall settle or reject the claim within               NaN  obtain any benefit under this policy, all bene...
67        NaN           45 days from the date of receipt of last               NaN  this policy and the premium paid shall be forf...
68        NaN                                necessary document.               NaN        Any amount already paid against claims made
69        NaN  IV. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days...               NaN   under this policy but which are found fraudulent

[70 rows x 4 columns]

Table 32:
            Cancellation Period           Refund %  Refund % Refund %  Unnamed: 0                     es_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
0                           NaN  for 1 year  for 2 years  for 3 years         NaN                                                NaN
1                           NaN                 tenure  tenure tenure         NaN                              10. Renewal of Policy
2                           NaN                  policy policy policy         NaN                                                NaN
3                           NaN                                   NaN         NaN  The policy shall ordinarily be renewable excep...
4       From 16 days to 1 month                           75% 80% 80%         NaN                                                NaN
5                           NaN                                   NaN         NaN  grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the ins...
6     From 1 month to  3 months                           60% 70% 75%         NaN                                                NaN
7                           NaN                                   NaN         NaN                                             person
8     From 3 months to 6 months                           40% 60% 70%         NaN                                                NaN
9     From 6 months to 9 months                           20% 50% 60%         NaN   i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for
10   From 9 months to 12 months                            0% 40% 55%         NaN         renewal. However, the Company is not under
11  From 12 months to 15 months                             - 30% 45%         NaN         obligation to give any notice for renewal.
12  From 15 months to 18 months                             - 20% 40%         NaN                                                NaN
13                          NaN                                   NaN         NaN  ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground ...
14  From 18 months to 21 months                             - 10% 35%         NaN                                                NaN
15                          NaN                                   NaN         NaN   insured person had made a claim or claims in the
16  From 21 months to 24 months                              - 0% 25%         NaN                                                NaN
17                          NaN                                   NaN         NaN                            preceding policy years.
18  From 24 months to 27 months                              - -  20%         NaN                                                NaN
19  From 27 months to 30 months                              -  - 10%         NaN  iii. Request for renewal along with requisite ...
20  From 30 months to 33 months                               -  - 5%         NaN  shall be received by the Company before the en...
21  From 33 months to 36 months                               -  - 0%         NaN                                 the policy period.

Table 33:
    Unnamed: 0                                            For the       purpose  ... Unnamed: 1   8.                                         Migration:
0          NaN  "fraud" means any of the following acts committed           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  The insured person will have the option to mig...
1          NaN                                     by the Insured        Person  ...        NaN  NaN  policy to other health insurance products/plan...
2          NaN  hospital/doctor/any other party acting on beha...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  by the company by applying for migration of th...
3          NaN                                        the insured       person,  ...        NaN  NaN  at least 30 days before the policy renewal dat...
4          NaN                                            insurer  or to induce  ...        NaN  NaN   IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is
5          NaN                                insurance Policy :-           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  presently covered and has been continuously co...
6          NaN  a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN      without any lapses under any health insurance
7          NaN         true and which the Insured Person does not           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  product/ plan offered by the company, the insured
8          NaN                                believe to be true;           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  person will get the accrued continuity benefit...
9          NaN  b) the active concealment of a fact by the Ins...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on mig...
10         NaN     Person having knowledge or belief of the fact;           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly r...
11         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuide...
12         NaN            c) any other act fitted to deceive; and           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
13         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                            ut.aspx?page=PageNo3987
14         NaN   d) any such act or omission as the law specially           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
15         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  9.0                                        Portability
16         NaN                          declares to be fraudulent           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
17         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  The insured person will have the option to por...
18         NaN  The company shall not repudiate the claim and ...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
19         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  policy to other insurers by applying to such i...
20         NaN  forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of f...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
21         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  port the entire policy along with all the memb...
22         NaN  the insured person / beneficiary can prove tha...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
23         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  family, if any, at least 45 days before, but n...
24         NaN                                       misstatement           was  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
25         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  than 60 days from the policy renewal date as p...
26         NaN    knowledge and there was no deliberate intention           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
27         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  guidelines related to portability. lf such per...
28         NaN  to suppress the fact or that such mis-statemen...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
29         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  presently covered and has been continuously co...
30         NaN                                     or suppression            of  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
31         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  without any lapses under any health insurance ...
32         NaN                          knowledge of the insurer.           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                                NaN
33         NaN                                                NaN           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  with an lndian General/Health insurer, the pro...
34         7.0                                       Cancellation           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  insured person will get the accrued continuity...
35         NaN  a) The policyholder may cancel this Policy by ...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN      in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on
36         NaN  15 days' written notice, and in such an event,...           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                                       portability.
37         NaN     Company shall refund premium for the unexpired           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly...
38         NaN                   Policy Period as detailed below.           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN  https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelin
39         NaN                                Cancellation Period           NaN  ...        NaN  NaN                     es_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987

[40 rows x 11 columns]

Table 34:
                                12. Moratorium Period  Policy, and to return the same if not acceptable.
0   After completion of eight continuous years und...  If the insured has not made any claim during t...
1   policy no look back would be applied. This per...      Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to
2     eight years is called as moratorium period. The                                                NaN
3                                                 NaN  a) a refund of the premium paid less any expenses
4   moratorium would be applicable for the sums in...                                                NaN
..                                                ...                                                ...
63  all the pending instalments from the claim amount                                                NaN
64                                                NaN                           414, Veer Savarkar Marg,
65                              due under the policy.                                                NaN
66                                                NaN                        Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
67  14. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Po...                      Prabhadevi, Mumbai - 400 025.

[68 rows x 2 columns]

Table 35:
   ii.  lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to                               15. Free look period  ... Unnamed: 2 Unnamed: 3 Unnamed: 4
0  NaN  similar health insurance product available wit...                         The Free Look Period shall  ...         on        new        NaN
1  NaN        Company at the time of renewal with all the                        individual health insurance  ...        and        not         on
2  NaN     accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative  renewals or at the time of porting/migrating t...  ...        NaN        NaN        NaN

[3 rows x 8 columns]

Table 36:
                                           Unnamed: 0 Unnamed: 1   Unnamed: 2  ... Unnamed: 4 Unnamed: 5  The insured person shall be allowed free look period of
0                                guidelines, provided        the       policy  ...       been        NaN                                                NaN      
1                                                 NaN        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN    fifteen days from date of receipt of the Policy      
2                         maintained without a break.        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN                                                NaN      
3                                                 NaN        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN  documents to review the  terms and conditions ...      
4                                   Moratorium Period        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN  Policy, and to return the same if not acceptable.      
..                                                ...        ...          ...  ...        ...        ...                                                ...      
74                                                NaN        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN  For updated details of grievance officer, kind...      
75  The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may...        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN                                                NaN      
76                                                NaN        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN   https://www.icicilombard.com/grievance-redressal      
77  or modify the terms of the policy including th...        NaN          NaN  ...        NaN        NaN                                                NaN      
78                          rates. The insured person      shall  be notified  ...      three        NaN  lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the re...      

[79 rows x 7 columns]

Table 37:
                           https://igms.irda.gov.in/ Additional zone based Co-Payment Grid Unnamed: 0
0                                    17. Nomination:              Treatment  Zone opted at        NaN
1  The policyholder is required at the inception ...         taken in Zone policy issuance        NaN
2     policy to make a nomination for the purpose of                                   A B          C
3  payment of claims under the policy in the even...                            A 0% 15.0%      25.0%
4  death of the policyholder. Any change of nomin...                  B Nil additional  0%      12.0%
5  shall be communicated to the company in writin...                            co-payment        NaN
6        such change shall be effective only when an      C Nil additional  Nil additional         0%
7  endorsement on the policy is made. ln the even...                 co-payment co-payment        NaN

Table 38:
   This Policy only covers medical treatment taken within
0   request for enhancing the Annual Sum Insured. The    
1   India arising during the Policy Period. All pa...    
2   maximum risk loading applicable for an individ...    
3   under this Policy will only be made in Indian ...    
4   not exceed 100% per diagnosis / medical condit...    
5                                       within India.    
6     an overall risk loading of 200% per individual.    
7   The construction, interpretation and meaning o...    
8   We will send You the applicable risk loading i...    
9    provisions of this Policy shall be determined in    
10  via a counter offer letter. You shall give Us ...    
11                        accordance with Indian law.    
12  and the additional premium (if any), within 15...    
13  For the purpose of Policy issuance, the premiu...    
14  computed basis the zone chosen by the Insured ...    
15  If You neither accept Our letter nor revert to...    
16    in the proposal form. The premium that would be    
17  15 days, We will cancel Your application and r...    
18  applicable zone wise and the cities defined in...    
19               premium paid within the next 7 days.    
20                                 zone are as under:    
21                                20. Material Change    
22      • Zone A- NCR*, Mumbai, Thane District,, Navi    
23  The Insured shall notify the Company in writin...    
24  material change in the risk in relation to the...    
25   • Zone B- Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Chhattisgarh,    
26   made in the proposal form or medical examination    
27         Madhya Pradesh, Daman & Diu, Dadar & Nagar    
28  report at each Renewal and the Company may, ad...    
29        Haveli, Goa, Maharashtra (excluding Mumbai,    
30   the scope of cover and/or premium, if necessary,    
31                       Thane District, Navi Mumbai)    
32                                       accordingly.    
33                            • Zone C- Rest of India    
34                       21. Records to be Maintained    
35     NCR* includes Includes Delhi and the following    
36   The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record    
37     districts: Faridabad, Gurgaon/Gurugram, Mewat,    
38  containing all relevant medical records and sh...    
39  Rohtak, Sonipat, Panipat, Jhajjhar, Palwal, Ka...    
40  the Company or its representatives to inspect ...    
41   Ghaziabad, Noida/Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr,    
42  records. The Proposer or Insured Person shall ...    
43              Baghpat, Hapur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar    
44    such information as the Company may require for    
45  Additional zone based Co-Payment would be levi...    
46  each and every claim (over and above the base ...    

Table 39:
   ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address  Unnamed: 0                                         Unnamed: 1  ...            as       amended    by
0      of the Company or through any other electronic          NaN                                                NaN  ...  (Amendment )           NaN  Act,
1             modes specified in the Policy Schedule.          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
2   iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insu...          NaN                                                ii.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
3    the address or through any other electronic mode          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
4                          mentioned in the schedule.          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
5                               23. Territorial Limit          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
6                                                 NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
7   All medical treatment for the purpose of this ...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
8                                                 NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
9                will have to be taken in India only.          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
10                                                NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
11  24. Automatic change in Coverage under the policy          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
12       The coverage for the Insured Person(s) shall          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
13                           automatically terminate:          NaN                               27. Policy alignment  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
14  i. In the case of his/ her (Insured Person) de...          NaN                                             Policy  ...     available      in cases   NaN
15  However the cover shall continue for the remai...          NaN  wherein insured(s) with two separate health in...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
16  Insured Persons till the end of Policy Period....          NaN  policies with Us, having different policy end ...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
17  other insured persons may also apply to renew the          NaN  want to align the policy start dates. We can a...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
18  policy. In case, the other insured person is m...          NaN  policies by extending the coverage of one poli...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
19   the policy shall be renewed only through any one          NaN                      end date of the other policy.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
20  of his/her natural guardian or guardian appointed          NaN  Such policies will be charged with premium on ...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
21  by court. All relevant particulars in respect ...          NaN  basis though the sum insured under the policy ...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
22    person (including his/her relationship with the          NaN                                   remain constant.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
23   insured person) must be submitted to the company          NaN               28. Endorsements (Changes in Policy)  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
24  along with the application. Provided no claim has          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
25                                                NaN          NaN                                                 i.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
26          been made, and termination takes place on          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
27                                                NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...            be      modified    by
28   account of death of the insured person, pro-rata          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
29                                                NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
30   refund of premium of the deceased insured person          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
31                                                NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
32  for the balance period of the policy will be e...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
33                                                NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...            by     a written   NaN
34  ii. Upon exhaustion of sum insured and additional          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
35  sum insured (if any), for the policy year. How...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
36                                                NaN          NaN                                                ii.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
37  the policy is  subject to renewal on the due d...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
38                                                NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...          must  be the legal   NaN
39           per the applicable terms and conditions.          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
40                                                NaN          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN   Such change   NaN
41                       25. Territorial Jurisdiction          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
42  All disputes or differences under or in relati...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
43  interpretation of the terms, conditions, valid...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
44  construct, limitations and/or exclusions conta...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
45  the Policy shall be determined by the Indian c...          NaN                                               iii.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
46                           according to Indian law.          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
47                                    26. Arbitration          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
48  i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as...          NaN                                                iv.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
49  quantum to be paid by the Policy, (liability b...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
50          otherwise admitted) such difference shall          NaN                          29. Change of Sum Insured  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
51  independently of all other questions, be refer...          NaN  Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased)  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
52  the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appoin...          NaN  only at the time of renewal subject to underwr...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
53   writing by the parties here to or if they cannot          NaN  the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiti...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
54  agree upon a single arbitrator within thirty d...          NaN  shall start afresh only for the enhanced porti...  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
55  any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be          NaN                                       sum insured.  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
56  referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comp...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
57                                                NaN          NaN                                   30. Non Payables  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
58  two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each o...          NaN                                                NaN  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN
59    parties to the dispute/difference and the third          NaN  Below are the non-payable items applicable in the  ...           NaN           NaN   NaN

[60 rows x 8 columns]

Table 40:
    Sr. No.                                              Items
0         1                                          BABY FOOD
1         2                             BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
2         3                                    BEAUTY SERVICES
3         4                                      BELTS/ BRACES
4         5                                               BUDS
5         6                                 COLD PACK/HOT PACK
6         7                                         CARRY BAGS
7         8                           EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
8         9  FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’s DIET\rPROVI...
9        10                                           LEGGINGS
10       11                                    LAUNDRY CHARGES
11       12                                      MINERAL WATER
12       13                                       SANITARY PAD
13       14                                  TELEPHONE CHARGES
14       15                                     GUEST SERVICES
15       16                                      CREPE BANDAGE
16       17                                 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
17       18                                      EYELET COLLAR
18       19                                             SLINGS
19       20  BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF\rDONORS S...
20       21  SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE\rALSO CHA...
21       22                                 Television Charges
22       23                                         SURCHARGES
23       24                                  ATTENDANT CHARGES
24       25  EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT\rWHICH ...
25       26                                  BIRTH CERTIFICATE
26       27                                CERTIFICATE CHARGES
27       28                                    COURIER CHARGES
28       29                                 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
29       30                                MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
30       31                                    MEDICAL RECORDS
31       32                                PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
32       33                                   MORTUARY CHARGES
33       34                               WALKING AIDS CHARGES
34       35  OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE\rHOSPITAL)
35       36                                             SPACER
36       37                                         SPIROMETRE
37       38                                      NEBULIZER KIT
38       39                                      STEAM INHALER
39       40                                           ARMSLING
40       41                                        THERMOMETER
41       42                                    CERVICAL COLLAR
42       43                                             SPLINT
43       44                                 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
44       45                  KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
45       46              KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
46       47                                  LUMBO SACRAL BELT

Table 41:
    Sr. No.                                              Items
0        48             NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
1        49                                   AMBULANCE COLLAR
2        50                                AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
3        51                                   ABDOMINAL BINDER
4        52   PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING\rCHARGES
5        53                                 SUGAR FREE Tablets
6        54  CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not\rpa...
7        55                                     ECG ELECTRODES
8        56                                             GLOVES
9        57                                   NEBULISATION KIT
10       58  RECOVERY KIT, ETC]ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS\rMEN...
11       59                                        KIDNEY TRAY
12       60                                               MASK
13       61                                        OUNCE GLASS
14       62                                        OXYGEN MASK
15       63                               PELVIC TRACTION BELT
16       64                                            PAN CAN
17       65                                       TROLLY COVER
18       66                                UROMETER, URINE JUG
19       67                                          AMBULANCE
20       68                                     VASOFIX SAFETY

Table 42:
   Heading                                         Unnamed: 0  Particulars      Scenario 1       Scenario 2         Scenario 3
0       A.                                 Annual Sum Insured          NaN     ` 10,00,000      ` 10,00,000        ` 10,00,000
1       B.   Base Co-payment opted at time of policy issuance          NaN             20%              20%                20%
2      NaN                                         Zone opted          NaN         B (Goa)          B (Goa)            B (Goa)
3      NaN                          Hospitalization Diagnosis          NaN   Heart Attack/    Heart Attack/      Heart Attack/
4      NaN                                                NaN          NaN      PTCA done/       PTCA done/         PTCA done/
5      NaN                                                NaN          NaN  Cardiovascular   Cardiovascular     Cardiovascular
6      NaN                                                NaN          NaN         disease          disease            disease
7      NaN                                 Treatment taken in          NaN    Goa (Zone B)  Mumbai (Zone A)  Guwahati (Zone C)
8       C.                    Hospitalisation expenses Amount          NaN      ` 4,00,000       ` 5,00,000         ` 3,00,000
9       D.              Pre and Post hospitalisation expenses          NaN        ` 35,000         ` 50,000           ` 20,000
10      E.                       Total claimed Expenses*[C+D]          NaN      ` 4,35,000       ` 5,50,000         ` 3,20,000
11      F.                              Zone based co-payment          NaN              0%              15%                 0%
12      G.  Claimed amount after application of zone based...          NaN      ` 4,35,000       ` 4,67,500         ` 3,20,000
13     NaN                                              [E*F]          NaN             NaN              NaN                NaN
14      H.              Sub-limit for cardiovascular diseases          NaN      ` 3,50,000       ` 3,50,000         ` 3,50,000
15      I.  Insured Person liability after application of ...          NaN        ` 87,000         ` 93,500           ` 64,000
16     NaN                                              [G*B]          NaN             NaN              NaN                NaN
17      J.  ICICI Lombard Liability after deduction of co-...          NaN      ` 3,48,000       ` 3,74,000         ` 2,56,000
18      K.  Final payable amount to Insured Person [lesser...          NaN      ` 3,48,000       ` 3,50,000         ` 2,56,000
19      L.                   Balance Annual Sum Insured [A-K]          NaN      ` 6,52,000       ` 6,50,000         ` 7,44,000

Table 43:
  Heading                                         Unnamed: 0  Particulars      Scenario 1       Scenario 2         Scenario 3
0      A.                                 Annual Sum Insured          NaN     ` 20,00,000      ` 20,00,000        ` 20,00,000
1      B.  Voluntary deductible opted at time of policy i...          NaN      ` 4,00,000       ` 4,00,000         ` 4,00,000
2      C.                         Base Co-payment applicable          NaN              NA               NA                 NA
3     NaN                                         Zone opted          NaN         B (Goa)          B (Goa)            B (Goa)
4     NaN                          Hospitalization Diagnosis          NaN   Heart Attack/    Heart Attack/      Heart Attack/
5     NaN                                                NaN          NaN      PTCA done/       PTCA done/         PTCA done/
6     NaN                                                NaN          NaN  Cardiovascular   Cardiovascular     Cardiovascular
7     NaN                                                NaN          NaN         disease          disease            disease
8     NaN                                 Treatment taken in          NaN   Goa  (Zone B)  Mumbai (Zone A)  Guwahati (Zone C)

Table 44:
  Unnamed: 0                               c. Fees charged         by  ...  Unnamed: 2 Unnamed: 3    applied incase voluntary deductible has been
0        NaN                          medical practitioner        NaN  ...         NaN        NaN                                      opted for.
1        NaN                     d. Investigation expenses        NaN  ...         NaN         v.      Base Co-payment shall be applicable on the
2       iii.  Zone based co-payment shall be applicable in        NaN  ...         NaN        NaN       amount payable by Us and our liability to
3        NaN                             all cases (Except  medically  ...         NaN        NaN          make payment shall than be arrived at.
4        NaN                            treatment for road    traffic  ...         NaN        vi.   In case, the claim is for a Procedure/Medical
5        NaN  treatment is taken in a zone higher than for        NaN  ...         NaN        NaN   Condition/Ailment/Disease which is subject to
6        NaN                    which premium was paid for        NaN  ...         NaN        NaN  sub-limits as per policy terms and conditions,
7        iv.  The voluntary deductible shall be applied to        NaN  ...         NaN        NaN      the claim will be settled to the extent of

[8 rows x 9 columns]

Table 45:
  Heading                                        Particulars   Scenario 1   Scenario 2                                         Scenario 3
0      D.                    Hospitalisation expenses Amount   ` 4,00,000   ` 5,00,000                                         ` 3,00,000
1      E.              Pre and Post hospitalisation expenses     ` 35,000     ` 50,000                                           ` 20,000
2      F.                       Total claimed Expenses*[D+E]   ` 4,35,000   ` 5,50,000                                         ` 3,20,000
3      G.                              Zone based co-payment           0%          15%                                                 0%
4      H.  Claimed amount after application of zone based...   ` 4,35,000   ` 4,67,500                                         ` 3,20,000
5      I.  IL Liability after application of voluntary de...     ` 35,000     ` 67,500  NA as\rexpenses have\rnot crossed\rvoluntary\r...
6      J.              Sub-limit for cardiovascular diseases   ` 3,50,000   ` 3,50,000                                         ` 3,50,000
7      K.  Final payable amount to Insured Person [lesser...     ` 35,000     ` 67,500                                                  -
8      L.                   Balance Annual Sum Insured [A-K]  ` 19,65,000  ` 19,32,500                                        ` 20,00,000

Table 46:
   You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly Unnamed: 0 of Policy) OR communicate non admissibility of claim
0   and in any event within 30 days of Your discha...          NaN    within 14 days after You submit complete set of  
1   a Hospital (for post-hospitalization expenses,...          NaN  documents & information in respect of the clai...  
2   30 days from the completion of post-hospitaliz...          NaN  case We fail to make the payment of admissible...  
3   period) deliver to Us the documentation (writt...          NaN  or to communicate non admissibility of claim w...  
4   of the quantum of any Claim along with all ori...          NaN  time period, We shall pay 2% interest over and...  
5   supporting documentation) as more particularly...          NaN       the rate defined as per IRDAI (Protection of  
6   in Claim documents section. In case there is a...          NaN          Policyholder's interest) Regulation 2017.  
7   beyond 30 days in submission of  claim documen...           B.  For Cashless Claims: If You notify pre authori...  
8   may condone the delay provided the insured person          NaN   request for cashless facility through any of Our  
9   submits a valid reason justifying the delay to...          NaN  empanelled network hospitals along with comple...  
10     writing. However, in both the above cases i.e.          NaN  of documents & information, We will respond wi...  
11  g.1.1.1(A) & (B), You must take reasonable ste...          NaN  hours of the actual receipt of such pre author...  
12  measure to minimise the quantum of any Claim that          NaN                                      request with:  
13  may be covered under the Policy If so requeste...          NaN                                                NaN  
14                                                NaN          NaN                                    a. Approval, or  
15  or Our in house claim processing team, You wil...          NaN                                                NaN  
16   undergo a medical examination from Our nominated          NaN                                   b. Rejection, or  
17  Medical Practitioner, as and when We or Our in...          NaN               c. Query seeking further information  
18     claim processing team considers reasonable and          NaN  In case the request is for enhancement, i.e. R...  
19  necessary. The cost of such examination will b...          NaN  for increase in the amount already authorized, We  
20                                             by Us.          NaN                 will respond to it within 3 hours.  
21                Claim falling in two Policy periods          NaN  In case of delay in response by Us beyond the ...  
22  If the claim event falls within two Policy per...          NaN     period as stated above for cashless claims, We  
23  shall be paid taking into consideration the av...          NaN  shall be liable to pay ` 1,000 to You. Our max...  
24  Insured in the two Policy periods, including t...          NaN  liability in respect of a single hospitalizati...  
25  for each Policy Period. Such eligible claim am...          NaN  at no time exceed ` 1,000. We will not be liab...  
26  payable to the Insured shall be reduced to the...          NaN         make any payments under this Claim Service  
27  premium to be received for the Renewal/due dat...          NaN    Guarantee in case of any force majeure, natural  
28  premium of health insurance Policy, if not rec...          NaN         event or manmade disturbance which impedes  
29                                1.2 CLAIM DOCUMENTS          NaN  Our inability to make a decision or to communi...  
30                                                NaN          NaN                             such decisions to You.  
31  You shall be required to furnish the following...          NaN                                                NaN  
32                          or in support of a Claim:          NaN  The service guarantee shall not be applicable for  
33                                                NaN          NaN         any cases delayed on account of reasonable  
34  i. Duly completed Claim form signed by You and...          NaN                                                NaN  
35                                                NaN          NaN      apprehension of fraud or fraudulent claims or  
36        Medical Practitioner. The claim form can be          NaN                                                NaN  
37                                                NaN          NaN    cases referred to/by any adjudicative forum for  
38  downloaded from our website www.icicilombard.com.          NaN                                                NaN  
39                                                NaN          NaN                                necessary disposal.  
40  ii. Original bills, receipts and discharge cer...          NaN                                                NaN  
41                                                NaN          NaN           You may lodge c laim separately for  the  
42           from the Hospital/ Medical Practitioner.          NaN                                                NaN  
43                                                NaN          NaN  hospitalization claim, Pre-Post hospitalizatio...  
44  iii. Original bills from chemists supported by...          NaN    such scenario, if delay happens beyond the time  
45                                      prescription.          NaN     period as specified above, the interest amount  
46  iv. Original investigation test reports and pa...          NaN  calculated will be on the net sanctioned amoun...  
47                                          receipts.          NaN    respective transaction and not the total amount  
48                              v. Indoor case papers          NaN                         paid for the entire claim.  
49  vi. Medical Practitioner's referral letter adv...          NaN       Any amount paid towards interest under Claim  
50             Hospitalization in non-Accident cases.          NaN   Service Guarantee will not affect the Annual Sum  
51                                                NaN          NaN              Insured as specified in the Schedule.  
52  vii. Any other document as required by Us or O...          NaN                                                NaN  
53    investigate the Claim or Our obligation to make          NaN  If you are not eligible for 'Claim Service Gua...  

Table 47:
                        Jurisdiction of Office           Unnamed: 0                     Jurisdiction of Office.1      Unnamed: 1
0                                          NaN       Office Details                                          NaN  Office Details
1                   Union Territory, District)                  NaN                   Union Territory, District)             NaN
2                AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh     Gujarat, Dadra &                                       JAIPUR      Rajasthan.
3           Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Nagar Haveli, Daman           Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN
4    Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th Floor, Tilak             and Diu.  Jeevan Nidhi - II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani             NaN
..                                         ...                  ...                                          ...             ...
69  6-2-46, 1st floor, “Moin Court”, Lane Opp.    and part of Union                                          NaN             NaN
70       Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards,         Territory of                                          NaN             NaN
71         Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.          Puducherry.                                          NaN             NaN
72    Tel.: 040 - 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599                  NaN                                          NaN             NaN
73    Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in                  NaN                                          NaN             NaN

[74 rows x 4 columns]

Table 48:
                               Jurisdiction of Office                     Jurisdiction of Office.1  Unnamed: 0       Unnamed: 1
0                                      Office Details                                          NaN         NaN   Office Details
1                          Union Territory, District)                   Union Territory, District)         NaN              NaN
2      AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh Gujarat, Dadra &                                       JAIPUR         NaN       Rajasthan.
3   Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Nagar Havel...           Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,         NaN              NaN
4   Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th Floor, Tilak and ...  Jeevan Nidhi - II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani         NaN              NaN
..                                                ...                                          ...         ...              ...
58                         GUWAHATI Assam, Meghalaya,             Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.         NaN  Mumbai & Thane.
59  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Manipur, Mi...              Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960         NaN              NaN
60                                                NaN                          Fax: 022 - 26106052         NaN              NaN
61  Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over Ar...                                          NaN         NaN              NaN
62  Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.inBridge, S...                                          NaN         NaN              NaN

[63 rows x 4 columns]

Table 49:
                       Jurisdiction of Office  ...            Unnamed: 1
0                                         NaN  ...        Office Details
1                  Union Territory, District)  ...                   NaN
2         NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad  ...     Bihar, Jharkhand.
3          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  ...                   NaN
4       Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main  ...                   NaN
5   Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam  ...                   NaN
6                    Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.  ...                   NaN
7                                         NaN  ...                   NaN
8                Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253  ...                   NaN
9                                         NaN  ...                   NaN
10       Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in  ...  Maharashtra, Area of
11                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
12                                        NaN  ...       Navi Mumbai and
13                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
14                                        NaN  ...       Thane excluding
15                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
16                                        NaN  ...   Mumbai Metropolitan
17                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
18                                        NaN  ...               Region.
19                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
20                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
21                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
22                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
23                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
24                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
25                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
26                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
27                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
28                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
29                                        NaN  ...                   NaN

[30 rows x 4 columns]

Table 50:
                       Jurisdiction of Office  ...            Unnamed: 1
0                                         NaN  ...        Office Details
1                  Union Territory, District)  ...                   NaN
2         NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad  ...     Bihar, Jharkhand.
3          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  ...                   NaN
4       Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main  ...                   NaN
5   Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam  ...                   NaN
6                    Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.  ...                   NaN
7                                         NaN  ...                   NaN
8                Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253  ...                   NaN
9                                         NaN  ...                   NaN
10       Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in  ...  Maharashtra, Area of
11                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
12                                        NaN  ...       Navi Mumbai and
13                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
14                                        NaN  ...       Thane excluding
15                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
16                                        NaN  ...   Mumbai Metropolitan
17                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
18                                        NaN  ...               Region.
19                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
20                                        NaN  ...                   NaN
21                                        NaN  ...                   NaN

[22 rows x 4 columns]



==================================================
DOCUMENT: BAJHLIP23020V012223.pdf
==================================================

--- DOCUMENT TEXT ---

    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 1 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
Policy Wordings  
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223  
SECTION A) PREAMBLE  
 
Whereas the Insured  described in the Policy Schedule hereto (hereinafter called the ‘Insured’  or “Policyholder” or 
“Insured Person” ) has made to Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter called the “Company” 
or “Insurer” or “Insurance Company”) a proposal or Proposal as mentioned in the transcript of the Proposal, which 
shall be the basis of this Contract and is deemed to be incorporated herein, containing certain undertakings , 
declarations, information/particulars and statements, which is hereby agreed to be the basis of this Contract and be 
considered as incorporated herein, for the insurance Contract hereinafter contained and has paid the premium 
specified in the Policy Sche dule hereto as consideration for such insurance Contract, now the Company agrees, 
subject always to the Policy Schedule and the following terms, conditions, exclusions, and limitations of the Policy, 
and in excess of the amount of the Deductible/ Co-Payment , to indemnify the Insured in respect of an admissible 
claim in the manner and to the extent hereinafter stated.  
 
SECTION B) DEFINITIONS - STANDARD DEFINITIONS  
Words or terms mentioned below have the meaning ascribed to them wherever they appear in this Po licy, and 
references to the singular or to the masculine, include references to the plural or to the feminine wherever the context 
permits.  If any word starts with Capital alphabet but is not defined in the Standard Definitions or Speci fic Definitions, 
then such word  shall be interpreted as per the headings of the respective clauses/points in these Policy W ordings.  
 
1. Accident: - 
An Accident  means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means.  
 
2. Any one Illness :- 
Any one  Illness  means continuous Period of Illness  and it includes relapse within 45 days from the date of last 
consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment was taken.  
 
3. AYUSH Hospital: - 
An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/sur gical/para -surgical treatment procedures and 
interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:  
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or  
b. Teaching Hospital  attached to AYUSH College recognized by t he Central Government/Central Council of 
Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or  
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co -located with Inpatient  healthcare facility of any recognized system of 
medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever  applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified 
registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion:  
i. Having at least 5 Inpatient  beds;  
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock;  
iii. Having  dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where 
surgical procedures are to be carried out;  
iv.Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the Insurance Company’s 
authorized representative.  
 
4. AYUSH Day Care Centre: - 
AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre (PHC), 
Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable and h aving facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or surgical/para -surgical 
interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) on Day Care Treatment  
basis without Inpatient  services and must comply wit h all the following criterion:  
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;  
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where 
surgical procedures are to be carried out;  
iii. Maintaining daily  records of the patients and making them accessible to the  Insurance Company ’s 
authorized representative.  
 
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 2 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
5. Cashless Facility: - 
Cashless Facility  means a facility extended by the Insurer to the Insured where the payments, of the costs of 
treatment under gone by the Insured in accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the 
Network Provider by the Insurer to the extent pre -authorization is approved.  
 
6. Condition Precedent :- 
Condition Precedent means a Policy term or condition upon w hich the Insurer's liability under the Policy is 
conditional upon.  
 
7. Congenital Anomaly :- 
Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference to 
form, structure or position.  
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly - Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body  
b. External Congenital Anomaly - Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body  
 
8. Co-Payment: - 
A Co-Payment  means a cost -sharing requirement under a healt h insurance Policy that provides that the 
Policyholder/Insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A Co-Payment  does not 
reduce the Sum Insured.  
 
9. Cumulative Bonus: - 
Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Ins ured granted by the insurer without an 
associated increase in premium.  
 
10. Day Care Centre :- 
A Day Care Centre  means any institution established for  Day Care Treatment  of Illness  and / or injuries or a 
medical set -up with a Hospital  and which has been regist ered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and 
is under supervision of a registered and qualified Medical Practitioner  AND must comply with all minimum 
criterion as under: -  
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment;  
ii. has qualified Medical  Practitioner  (s) in charge;  
iii. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;  
iv. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance Company’s authorized 
personnel.  
 
11. Day Care Treatmen t:- 
Day care treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is:  
i. undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a Hospital /Day Care Centre  in less than 24 hrs because of 
technological advancement, and  
ii. Which would have otherwise required  a Hospitalization  of more than 24 hours.  
Treatment normally taken on an out -patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition.  
 
12. Deductible: - 
Deductible means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance Policy  that provides that the ins urer will 
not be liable for a specified amount in case of indemnity policies and for a specified number of days/hours in case 
of Hospital  cash policies which will apply before any benefits are payable by the insurer. A Deductible does not 
reduce the Sum In sured.  
 
13. Dental Treatment: - 
Dental Treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including examinations, fillings 
(where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery.  
 
14. Disclosure to information norm :- 
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis -description or non -disclosure of any material fact.  
 
15. Emergency Care: - 
Emergency care means management  for an Illness  or Injury  which results in symptoms which occur suddenly and 
unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a Medical Practitioner  to prevent death or serious long term 
impairment of the Insured person’s health . 
 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 3 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
16. Grace Period: - 
Grace period means the specified period of time immediately follo wing the premium due date during which a 
payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such as waiting 
periods and coverage of pre -existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for which no pre mium is 
received.  
 
17. Hospital: - 
A Hospital  means any institution established for Inpatient  care and Day Care Treatment  of Illness  and/or injuries 
and which has been registered as a Hospital  with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments 
(Regist ration and Regulation) Act, 2010 OR  under the enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) 
of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as under:  
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;  
ii. has at least 10 Inpatie nt beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 Inpatient  
beds in all other places;  
iii. has qualified Medical Practitioner (s) in charge round the clock;  
iv. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are  carried out;  
v. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance Company’s authorized 
personnel.  
 
18. Hospitalization: - 
Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive In -patient Care hours 
exce pt for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24 
consecutive hours.  
 
19. Illness: - 
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological 
function and requires medical treatment.  
a.    Acute condition  - Acute condition is a disease, Illness  or Injury  that is likely to respond quickly to treatment 
which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the 
disease/ Illness/Injury  which leads to full recovery.  
b.   Chronic condition  – A chronic condition is defined as a disease, Illness , or Injury  that has one or more of the 
following characteristics:  
a. it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinat ions, check -ups, and /or tests  
b. it needs ongoing or long -term control for relief of symptoms  
c. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it  
d. it continues indefinitely  
e. it recurs or is likely to recur.  
 
20. Injury: - 
Injury means Accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness  or disease solely and directly caused by external, 
violent , visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.  
 
21. Inpatient Care: - 
Inpatient care means tr eatment for which the Insured has to stay in a Hospital  for more than 24 hours for a 
covered event.  
 
22. Intensive Care Unit: - 
Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital  which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner (s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous monitoring 
and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care 
and supervision is considerably more sophisticate d and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.  
 
23. ICU Charges: - 
ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall 
include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to an y ICU patient including 
monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.  
 
24. Kidney Failure Requiring Regular Dialysis: - 
End  stage  renal  disease  presenting  as  chronic  irreversible  failure  of  both kidneys  to  function,  as  a  resu lt  
of  which  either  regular  renal  dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is 
carried  out.  Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a Specialist Medical Practitioner.  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 4 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
25. Maternity expenses: - 
Maternity expenses mean s;  
a. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections 
incurred during Hospitalization );  
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period.  
  
26. Medical Advice: - 
Medical  Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any 
prescription or follow up prescription.  
 
27. Medical Expenses: - 
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured has necessarily and actually incurred for m edical 
treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more 
than would have been payable if the Insured had not been Insured and no more than other Hospitals or Medical 
Practitioner s in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.  
 
28. Medical Practitioner/Doctor/ Physician: - 
Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or 
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian  Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a 
State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within its scope 
and jurisdiction of license.   
 
29. Medically Necessary Treatment: - 
Medicall y necessary treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital  or part of a stay in 
Hospital  which:  
i. is required for the medical management of the Illness  or Injury  suffered by the Insured;  
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to p rovide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in 
scope, duration, or intensity;  
iii. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner , 
iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the 
medical communi ty in India.  
 
30. Migration: - 
Migration means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under family cover 
and members under family cover and members of group health insurance Policy ), to transfer the credit gained for 
pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.  
 
31. Network Provider: - 
Network Provider means Hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an Insurer 
and TPA to provide medical services to an Insured  by a Cashless Facility . 
 
32.    New Born Baby: - 
New Born Baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged up to 90 days.  
 
33. Non- Network Provider: - 
Non-Network Provider means any Hospital , Day Care Centre  or other provider that is not part of the Network.  
 
34. Notification of Claim: - 
Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the recognized 
modes of communication.  
 
35. OPD treatment: - 
OPD treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / Hospital  or associated facility like a 
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not 
admitted as a Day Care Treatment  or Inpatient . 
 
36. Portability: - 
Portability means the right accorded to an individual he alth insurance policyholder (including all members 
under family cover) to transfer the credit gained for pre -existing conditions and time -bound exclusions from 
one insurer to another.  
 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 5 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
37. Pre-Existing Disease: - 
Pre-Existing Disease means any condition, ailme nt or Injury  or disease  
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the Policy  issued by the 
insurer  
or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 months 
prior to the effective date of the Policy or  its reinstatement.  
 
38. Pre-Hospitalization  Medical Expenses: - 
Pre-Hospitalization  Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre -defined number of days 
preceding the Hospitalization  of the Insured, provided  that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured’s Hospitalization was 
required, and  
ii. The In -patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company.  
 
39. Post -Hospitalization  Medical E xpenses: - 
Post-Hospitalization  Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre -defined number of days 
immediately after the Insured is discharged from the Hospital  provided that:  
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the In sured’s Hospitalization  was required, and  
ii. The Inpatient  Hospitalization  claim for such Hospitalization  is admissible by the Insurance Company.  
 
40. Reasonable and Customary Charges: - 
Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges 
for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar 
services, taking into account the nature of the Illness  / Injury  involved.  
 
41. Qualified Nurse: - 
Qualified nu rse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing 
Council of any state in India.  
 
42. Renewal: - 
Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a provision 
of gra ce period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre -existing diseases, 
time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.  
 
43. Room Rent:- 
Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses a nd shall include 
the associated medical expenses.  
 
44. Surgery or Surgical Procedure: - 
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an Illness  
or Injury , correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering and 
prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital  or Day Care Centre  by a Medical Practitioner . 
 
45. Unproven/Experimental Treatment: - 
Unproven/Experimental treatment means the treatment, including drug experimental therapy, which is not based 
on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.  
 
SECTION B) DEFINITIONS - SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS  
 
1. Accidental shall be construed as per definition of Accident in Standard Definitions.  
 
2. Act of Terro rism: -  
Means an act or thing by any person or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on behalf of or in connection 
with or in connivance with or at the instance or instigation of any person or group(s) or organisation(s) or 
associations(s), who are committed or proclaimed to be committed for political, religious or ideological purposes, 
whether such person or group(s) of persons or organisation(s) or association(s) are or are not banned any law, in 
such a manner or with intent to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India or to strike terror in 
the people or any section of the people by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable 
substances or firearms or other lethal weapons or poisons or noxious gases or o ther chemicals or by any other 
substances (whether biological or otherwise) of a hazardous nature or by any other means whatsoever, with 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 6 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
intend to cause, or likely to cause, death or, or injuries to any person or persons or loss of, or damage to, or 
destru ction of, property or disruption of any supplies or services essential to the life of the community or causes 
damage or destruction of any property or equipment used or intended to be used for the defence  of India or in 
connection with any other purposes o f the Government of India, any State Government or an of their agencies, or 
detains any person and threatens to kill or injure such person in order to compel the Government or any other 
person to do or abstain from doing any act. Provided further that for the above acts appropriate criminal 
prosecution has been initiated by police and charge sheet has been filed in competent court of criminal 
jurisdiction, either under special law or under general law.  
 
3. Bajaj Allianz Network Hospitals / Network Hospitals/Ne twork Providers: - 
Bajaj Allianz Network Hospitals / Network Hospitals means the Hospitals which have been empanelled  by the 
Insurer as per the latest     version of the list of Hospitals maintained by the Insurer , which  is available to You on  
request. For updated list please visit Our website.  
 
4. Bajaj Allianz Diagnostic Centre: - 
Bajaj Allianz Diagnostic Centre means the diagnostic centers which have been empanelled by Us as per the latest 
version of the schedule of diagnostic centers maintained by Us, which is available to You on request.  
 
5. Alternate/ Complementary treatment: - 
Complementary treatment refers to therapeutic and diagnostic treatment that exists outside of traditional Western 
medicine viz. chiropractic treatment, osteopathy, Chinese herbal medicine , homeopathy, acupuncture and 
podiatry as practised by approved therapists.  
 
6. Dental prescription drugs outside India: - 
Dental prescription drugs outside India refers to those prescribed by a dentist for the treatment of dental 
inflammation or infection. Th e prescription drugs must be proven to be effective for the condition and recognized 
by the pharmaceutical regulator in a given country. They do not include mouthwashes, fluoride products, 
antiseptic gels and toothpastes.  
 
7. Dental prostheses outside India: - 
Dental prostheses outside India includes crowns, inlays, onlays, adhesive reconstructions/restorations, bridges, 
dentures and implants as well as all necessary and ancillary treatment required  
 
8. Dental surgery outside India: - 
Dental surgery outside India i ncludes the surgical extraction of teeth, as well as other tooth -related surgical 
procedures such as apicoectomy and dental prescription drugs. All investigative procedures that establish the 
need for dental surgery such as laboratory tests, X -rays, CT sca ns and MRI(s) are included under this benefit. 
Dental surgery does not cover surgical treatment that relates to dental implants . 
 
9. Dental treatment outside India: - 
Dental treatment outside India includes an annual check -up, simple fillings related to caviti es or decay, root canal 
treatment and dental prescription drugs.  
 
10. Dependent: - 
Dependent means a family member who is Your  spouse, children and parents/parents -in-law. 
 
11. Dependent child: - 
A child is considered a dependent for insurance purposes up to the day  before his/her 25th birthday. If enrolled in 
full time education a child is considered as dependent up to the day before his/her 30th birthday provided he is 
financially dependent on the proposer.  
 
12. Diagnostic tests: - 
Diagnostic tests refers to investigati ons such as x -rays or blood tests, undertaken to determine the cause of the 
presented symptoms.  
 
13. Emergency  and Emergency Treatment  
Emergency Treatment shall be accordingly taken/interpreted as per definition of Emergency Care read with this 
definition. Pro vided however only treatment commencing within 24 hours of the Emergency event will be covered.  
 
14. Emergency Inpatient  Dental Treatment arising from an Accident :- 
Emergency Inpatient  Dental Treatment arising from an Accident  refers to acute Emergency Dental Treatment that 
is due to a serious Accident  and requires admission to Hospital . The treatment must take place within 24 hours of 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 7 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
the Emergency event. Cover does not extend to follow -up Dental Treatment, dental surgery, dental prostheses, 
orthodontics or pe riodontics.  
 
15. Emergency Treatment outside area of cover: - 
Emergency treatment outside area of cover is treatment for medical emergencies which occur during business or 
holiday trips outside Your  area of cover. Cover is provided for up to six weeks per trip within the maximum benefit 
amount. It includes treatment required due to an Accident  or the sudden beginning or worsening of a severe 
Illness  which presents an immediate threat to Your  health. Treatment by a Doctor must start within 24 hours of 
the Emergen cy event. Cover is not provided for curative or follow -up non -Emergency treatment, even if You are 
deemed unable to travel to a country within Your  geographical area of cover. Nor does it extend to charges 
relating to maternity, pregnancy, childbirth or an y complications of pregnancy or childbirth. You must tell Us if You 
are going to be outside Your  area of cover for more than six weeks.  
 
16. Endorsement: - 
Endorsement means any writing on a Policy Schedule or Policy, in addition to its normal Policy Schedule/P olicy 
wording /Standard Terms and Conditions  which supplements or modifies its  Policy Schedule/Policy 
Wording/Standard Terms and Conditions . It may be added when Policy is prepared, or subsequently. Provided 
however any Service Level Agreement [SLA] or Agre ement/MOU laying down various service levels shall not be 
treated as Endorsement.  
 
17. Family history: - 
Family history exists where a parent, grandparent, sibling, child, aunt or uncle has been previously diagnosed with 
the medical condition in question.  
 
18. Home  Country: - 
Home country is a country for which You hold a current passport or which  is Your  principal country of residence.  
 
19. Hospital (for International Cover ):-  
Hospital for international practice is any establishment which is licensed as a medical or su rgical Hospital  in the 
country where it operates and where the patient is permanently supervised by a Doctor.  
The following are not considered Hospitals:  
“rest and nursing homes, spas, cure -centres and health resorts. ” 
 
20. Inpatient :- shall be construed  as per Standard Definition of Inpatient Care . 
 
21. Inpatient cash benefit: - 
In-patient cash benefit is payable when You receive Inpatient  treatment free of charge for a medical condition that 
is covered by Us. Cover is limited to the amount and maximum nu mber of nights specified in the Table of Benefits 
and is payable after You are discharged from Hospital . 
 
20. Limit of Indemnity: - 
Limit of Indemnity represents Our maximum liability to make payment for each and every claim per person and 
collectively for all persons mentioned in the Policy Schedule during the Policy Period and in the aggregate for the 
person(s) named in the Policy S chedule during the Policy Period, and means the amount stated in the Policy 
Schedule against each Cover.  
 
21. Living donor medical cos ts:- 
Living donor medical costs refer to the expenses We pay up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule, towards 
organ donor’s treatment for harvesting of the donated organ, provided that,  
 The organ donor is any person whose organ has been made avai lable in accordance and in compliance with 
the local regulation and the organ donated is for the use of the Insured, and  
 We have accepted an Inpatient  Hospitalization claim for the Insured under In -patient Hospitalization  treatment 
for organ transplant . 
 
22. Local (Road) ambulance: - 
Local (Road) ambulance is ambulance transport that is required for an Emergency or out of medical necessity, to 
the nearest available and appropriate Hospital  or licensed medical facility.  
 
23. Medical Consumable: - 
Medical consumable  and equipment includes syringes, needles, sutures, staples, packaging, tubing, 
catheters,  medical  gloves, gowns, masks, adhesives and sealants for wound dressing and a whole host of other 
devices and tools used with a Hospital  or surgical environment  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 8 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
24. Medica l Practitioner s/Doctor (for International Cover): -  
Medical Practitioner s/Doctor for international practice are Doctors who are licensed to practise medicine under 
the law of the country in which Medically Necessary Treatment  is given and where they are pr actising within the 
limits of their licence.  
 
25. Medical Practitioner  fees: - 
Medical Practitioner  fees refers to non -surgical treatment performed or administered by a Medical Practitioner . 
 
26. Medical underwriting: - 
Medical underwriting is the assessment of insu rance risk based on information that You give Us when applying for 
cover. Our underwriting team uses this information to decide the terms of Our offer.  
 
27. "Mental Illness"  means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or memory that  grossly 
impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet the ordinary demands of life, but does 
not include mental retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mind of a person, 
specially character ised by sub normality of intelligence;  
 
28. Named Insured/ Insured/Insured Person:  
Insured means the persons, or his Family Members , named in the Schedule provided that an Insured or his 
Family Members has attained the age of 3 months and is not older than 65  years of age at the commencement of 
first Global Health Care  Policy.  
 
29. Network shall be construed as per the Standard Definition of Network Provider.  
 
30. Obesity: - 
Obesity means abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that may impair health. Obesity is measure d in Body 
Mass Index.  
Body mass index (BMI) is a simple index of weight -for-height that is commonly used to classify overweight and 
obesity in adults. It is defined as a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of his height in meters 
(kg/m2).  
The WHO definition is:  
 BMI greater than or equal to 25 is overweight  
 BMI greater than or equal to 30 is obesity  
 
31. Oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures outside India: - 
Oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures outside India refers to surgical treatment  on the mouth, jaws, face or 
neck performed in a Hospital  by an oral and maxillofacial surgeon for: oral pathology, temporomandibular joint 
disorders, facial bone fractures, congenital jaw deformities, salivary gland diseases and tumours.  
Unless You hold an International Dental Plan, We do not cover the following procedures even if they are 
performed by an oral and maxillofacial surgeon:  
 Surgical removal of impacted teeth  
 Surgical removal of cysts  
 Orthognathic surgeries for the correction of malocclusion . 
 
32. Organ transplant: - 
Organ transplant refers to the following organ or tissue transplants: heart, heart/valve, heart/lung, liver, pancreas, 
pancreas/kidney, kidney, bone marrow, parathyroid, muscular/skeletal and cornea.  
 
33. Periodontics (for international p ractice): - 
Periodontics refers to  Dental Treatment  related to gum disease . 
 
34. Podiatry  
Podiatry refers to Medically Necessary Treatment  carried out by a State Registered podiatrist.  
 
35. Policy or Contract / Global Health Care P olicy :- 
Policy or Contract means t he Proposal, the Policy Schedule, along with these Terms and Conditions issued to the 
Insured and any annexures and/or Endorsements attaching to and / or forming part thereof either at the 
commencement of Policy Period or during the Policy Period.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 9 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
36. Policy Schedule or Schedule: - 
Policy Schedule means the Policy Schedule and any annexure or Endorsements to it, if any, as issued by the 
Company, which forms part of Policy.  
 
37. Policy Period: - 
Policy Period means period from risk inception date [RID] to risk end da te [RED], as mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule.  
 
38. Policy Year: - 
Policy Year means the period of 12 months.  
 
39. Prescribed physiotherapy: - 
Prescribed physiotherapy refers to treatment provided by a registered physiotherapist following referral by a 
Doctor. Phys iotherapy is initially restricted to 12 sessions per condition, after which treatment must be reviewed 
by the Doctor who referred You. If You need further sessions, You must send Us a new progress report after 
every set of 12 sessions, indicating the medic al necessity for more treatment. Physiotherapy does not include 
therapies such as Rolfing, massage, Pilates, Fango and Milta . 
 
40. Prescription drugs: - 
Prescription drugs refers to products which You can’t buy without a prescription and are to treat a confirme d 
diagnosis or medical condition or to compensate a lack of vital bodily substances. Examples are antibiotics, 
sedatives, etc. Prescription drugs must be clinically proven to be effective for the diagnosed condition. They must 
also be recognised by interna tionally accepted medical guidelines.  
 
41. Principal country of residence: - 
Principal country of residence is the country where You and Your  dependents (if applicable) live for more than six 
months of the Policy year.  
 
42. Psychiatrist  
Psychiatrist is a registered  Medical Practitioner  who specializes in psychiatry, the branch of medicine devoted to 
the diagnosis, prevention, study, and treatment of mental disorders.  
 
43. Rehabilitation  
Rehabilitation is defined as “a set of interventions designed to optimize functioni ng and reduce disability in 
individuals with health conditions in interaction with their environment.  
Rehabilitation is  a treatment that combines therapies such as physical, occupational and speech therapy. It aims 
to restore original  form or function afte r an acute Illness , Injury  or surgery. Treatment must take place in a 
licensed rehabilitation facility and start within 14 days of discharge from acute medical and/or surgical treatment.  
 
44. Rehabilitation Hospital /unit/facility  
Rehabilitation Hospitals/unit/ facility, also referred to as Inpatient  rehabilitation Hospitals, are devoted to the 
rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions 
following stabilisation of their acute medical issues.  
 
45. Sing le Private room: - 
Single Private Room means a single occupancy air -conditioned room with an attached washroom/toilet. Deluxe, 
executive rooms and suites are not covered.    
 
46. Specialist: - 
Specialist is a licensed Doctor possessing the additional qualificatio ns and expertise necessary to practise as a 
recognised specialist in diagnostic techniques, treatment and prevention in a particular field of medicine.  
 
47. Specialist fees: - 
Specialist fees refers to non -surgical treatment performed or administered by a speci alist. 
 
48. Speech therapy: - 
Speech therapy refers to treatment carried out by a qualified speech therapist to treat diagnosed physical 
impairments. This includes conditions such as nasal obstruction, neurogenic impairment (e.g. lingual paresis, 
brain Injury ) or articulation disorders involving the oral structure (e.g. cleft palate).  
 
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 10 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
49. Sum Insured or SI  means the amount stated in the Policy Schedule against each relevant Section, which shall be 
the Company’s maximum liability under this Policy (regardless of the  number of the amount of Claims made) for 
any one Claim and in the aggregate for all Claims under such Section.  
 
50. Surgical appliances and materials: - 
Surgical appliances and materials are those required for surgeries. They include artificial body parts or d evices 
such as joint replacement materials, bone screws and plates, valve replacement appliances, endovascular stents, 
implantable defibrillators and pacemakers.  
 
51. Therapist: - 
Therapist refers to a chiropractor, osteopath, Chinese herbalist, homeopath, acup uncturist, physiotherapist, 
speech therapist, occupational therapist or oculomotor therapist, who is qualified and licensed under the laws of 
the country in which treatment takes place.  
 
52. You, Your, Yourself, Your Family: - 
named in the Policy Schedule means  the Insured or Insured’s Family Members   who are beneficiaries that We 
insure as set out in the Schedule.  
 
53. We, Us, Our, Ours: - 
means the Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited.  
 
SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY  
 
Type of Policy: Indivi dual 
 
Tenure of Policy: 1 year  
 
Scope of cover:  
The Company hereby agrees to pay Reasonable and Customary expenses in respect of an admissible claim, for 
any or all of the following covers subject to the Sum Insured, limits,  Deductibles,  terms, conditions and definitions, 
exclusions contained or otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
PART A - COVERAGE - Domestic (Within India Only , for Imperial  and Imperial  Plus  Plans)  
 
I. IN-PATIENT BENEFITS FOR DOMESTIC COVER  
 
1. In-patient Hospitalization Treatment  
If You are  advised Hospitalization  within India  by a Medical Practitioner  as defined under Policy because of Illness 
or Accidental Bodily Injury sustained or contracted during the Policy Period, then We will pay You, Reasonable and 
Customary Medical Expenses incurred sub ject to  
i. Room rent and Boarding expenses as provided by the Hospital/Nursing Home without any sub limit  
ii. If admitted in ICU, the Company will pay up to actual ICU expenses provided by Hospital.  
iii. Nursing Expenses as provided by the Hospital  
iv. Surgeon, Anesthetis t, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialists Fees.  
v. Anesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation Theatre Charges, surgical appliances,  
vi. Dialysis, Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy, Physiotherapy  
vii. Medicines & Drugs  
viii. Cost of Artificial Limbs, cost of prosthetic devices implanted during surgical procedure like Pacemaker, 
orthope dic implants, cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents.  
ix. Relevant laboratory diagnostic tests, X -ray and such similar expenses that are medically necessary prescribed 
by the treating Medical Practitioner.  
x. Emergency Inpatient  Hospitalization  for Dental Treatment  arising from an Accident  
 
2. Pre-Hospitalization  
The Medical Expenses incurred during the 60 days immediately before You were Hospitalized, provided that: Such 
Medical Expenses were incurr ed for the same Illness /Injury  for which subsequent Hospitalization was required, and 
We have accepted an Inpatient  Hospitalization claim under Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment.  
 
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 11 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
3. Post -Hospitalization  
The Medical Expenses incurred during the 180 days im mediately after You were discharged post Hospitalization 
provided that: Such costs are incurred in respect of the same Illness /Injury  for which the earlier Hospitalization was 
required, and We have accepted an Inpatient  Hospitalization claim under Inpatien t Hospitalization Treatment.  
 
4. Local ( Road ) Ambulance  
We will pay the reasonable cost , specified in the Policy Schedule,  incurred on an ambulance offered by a 
healthcare or ambulance service provider for transferring You to the nearest Hospital with adequa te Emergency 
facilities for the provision of health services following an Emergency or out of medical necessity.  
 
We will also reimburse the expenses incurred on an ambulance offered by a healthcare or ambulance service 
provider for transferring You from t he Hospital where You were admitted initially to another Hospital  with higher 
medical facilities.  
Claim under this section shall be payable by Us only when:  
i. Such life threatening Emergency condition is certified by the Medical Practitioner, and  
ii. We have acc epted Your  Claim under "In -patient Hospitalization Treatment" or "Day Care Procedures" section of 
the Policy.  
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy.  
 
5. Day Care Procedures  
We will pay You the medical expenses as listed under  Section C,  Part A I-1- In-patient Hospitalization Treatment 
for Day care procedures / Surgeries taken as an Inpatient  in a Hospital  or Day Care Centre  but not in the outpatient 
department. List of Day Care Procedures is as given in the Annexure I of Poli cy wordings.  
 
6. Living Donor Medical Costs  
We will pay expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule, towards organ donor’s treatment for 
harvesting of the donated organ, provided that,  
1. The organ donor is any person whose organ has been made ava ilable in accordance and in compliance with 
THE TRANSPLANTATION OF HUMAN ORGANS (AMENDMENT) BILL, 2011and the organ donated is for the 
use of the Insured, and  
2. We have accepted an Inpatient  Hospitalization claim for the Insured under In Patient Hospitalizat ion Treatment 
(Section C,  Part A  I-1). 
 
7. Annual Preventive Health Check -up 
After each renewal of Global Health Care Policy  with Us, You will be entitled for an Annual Preventive Health 
Check -up. We will reimburse the amount as per the limits specified in th e Policy Schedule.  
You may approach Us for the arrangement of the Health Check up.  For the avoidance of doubt, We shall not be 
liable for any other ancillary or peripheral costs or expenses (including but not limited to those for transportation, 
accommoda tion or sustenance).  
Contact Email id - healthcheck@bajajallianz.co.in . 
Note:  Payment under this benefit will not reduce the base sum Insured  mentioned in Policy  Schedule.  
 
8. Ayurvedic / Homeopathic Hospi talization Expenses  
If You are Hospitalized for not less than 24 hrs, in an Ayurvedic / Homeopathic Hospital which is a government 
Hospital  or in any institute recognized by government and/or accredited by Quality Council of India/National 
Accreditation B oard on Health on the advice of a Medical Practitioner  because of Illness or Accidental Bodily Injury 
sustained or contracted during the Policy Period then We will pay You: 
In-patient Treatment - Medical Expenses for Ayurvedic and Homeopathic treatment:  
 Room rent, boarding expenses  
 Nursing care  
 Consultation fees  
 Medicines, drugs and Medical consumables,  
 Ayurvedic and Homeopathic treatment procedures  
Our maximum liability is up to In -patient Hospitalization Sum Insured . 
 
The claim will be admissible under th e Policy provided that, the Illness /Injury  requires Inpatient  admission and the 
procedure performed on the Insured cannot be carried out on out -patient basis.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 12 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
9. Air Ambulance  
We will pay for ambulance transportation in an airplane or helicopter for Emergenc y life threatening health 
conditions which require immediate and rapid ambulance transportation from the site of first occurrence of the 
Illness  /Accident  to the nearest Hospital . The claim would be reimbursed up to the limits specified in the Policy 
Sched ule provided that We have accepted an Inpatient  Hospitalization claim under Inpat ient Hospitalization  
Treatment.  
Return transportation to the client’s home by air ambulance is excluded .  
 
10. Mental Illness Treatment  
We will pay the Customary and Reasonable e xpenses  for In -patient treatment of Mental Illness  (as specified under 
Annexure IV) , provided this treatment is availed in a recognized psychiatric unit of a Hospital, up to Sum Insured as 
specified in the Policy Schedule.  
The above coverage is subject to fulfilment of following conditions:  
a. Mental Illness treatment  is only covered where patient is diagnosed and treated by a psychiatrist, clinical 
psychologist or licensed psychotherapist.  
b. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment.  
c. All day -care or Inpatient admissions must include prescription medication related to the condition.  
d. The treatment should be taken in Mental Health Establishment either wholly or partly meant for the care of 
persons with mental Illness, where persons with mental Illn ess are admitted for treatment.  
 
Exclusions:  Mental Illness Treatment does not cover:  
a. Any expenses for Mental Illness  Treatment  related  to Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive 
condition and consequences thereof.  
b. Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the same 
and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions  
c. Alternate treatment other than Allopathic treatment are not covered.  
d. For autism spectrum disorder, admissions, stays or day care treatment at specialised educational facilities are 
not covered.  
e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness  
 
 
11. Rehabilitation  
Rehabilitation is defined as a set of interventions designed to optimize functioning and reduce disability in 
individuals wi th health conditions in interaction with their environment. It aims to restore original form or function 
after an acute Illness , Injury  or surgery.   
Rehabilitation is a treatment that combines therapies such as physical, occupational and speech therapy.  
We will pay You up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule for the cost of In -patient Rehabilitation provided  
a. it is carried out by a Medical Practitioner  specializing in rehabilitation; and  
b. it is carried out in a licensed rehabilitation Hospital  or un it; 
c. We have accepted an Inpatient  Hospitalization claim for the Insured under In Patient Hospitalization Treatment  
and rehabilitation starts within 14 days of discharge from Hospital  following acute medical and/or surgical 
treatment  
d. the treatment could no t be carried out on an out -patient basis . 
 
 
12. Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies  
 
We will pay the Customary and Reasonable expenses  for the Modern Treatment Methods as mentioned in 
Annexure III subject to the Sum Insured , terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or otherwise 
expressed in this Policy.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 13 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
TABLE OF BENEFITS FOR DOMESTIC COVER  
COVER  IMPERIAL  PLAN  IMPERIAL  PLUS PLAN  
In-patient Hospitalization 
Treatment  Limits  INR 
3,750,000   INR 
5,600,000  INR 
7,500,000  INR  
11,200,000  INR 
18,750,000  INR 
37,500,000  
In-patient Hospitalization 
Treatment  Up to Sum Insured  
Hospital accommodation  
(Room rent and ICU)  At Actual  
Pre-hospitalisation  60 days  
Post-hospitalisation  180 days  
Local (Road) Ambulance  Up to S um Insured  
Day Care Procedures  Up to Sum Insured  
Living Donor Medical Costs  INR 5 00,000  
Annual Preventive Health Check -
up 
(only offered at renewal)  INR 5, 000  
Ayurvedic / Homeopathic 
Hospitalization Expenses  Up to Sum Insured  
Air Ambulance  INR 
500,000   INR 
675,000  INR 
750,000 INR 
750,000  INR 
750,000  INR 
750,000  
Mental Illness Treatment  Up to Sum Insured  
Rehabilitation   INR 50,000 
Modern Treatment Methods and 
Advancement in Technologies  Up to Sum Insured  
Note: The total Sum Insured payable und er all  the above  covers will not exceed the In -patient Hospitalization 
Treatment Limits  
 
 
PART B - COVERAGE - International  
 
I. IN-PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER  
 
1. In-patient Hospitalization Treatment  
If You are advised Hospitalization by a Medical P ractitioner as defined under Policy because of Illness or 
Accidental Bodily Injury sustained or contracted during the Policy Period, then We will pay You, Reasonable and 
Customary Medical Expenses incurred subject to  
i. Room rent and Boarding expenses up to a  Single Private Air Conditioned Room  
ii. If admitted in ICU, the Company will pay up to actual ICU expenses provided by Hospital.  
iii. Nursing Expenses as provided by the Hospital  
iv. Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Therapist, Specialists Fees.  
v. Anesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation Theatre Charges, surgical appliances,  
vi. Dialysis, Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy, Physiotherapy  
vii. Prescription drugs and materials  
viii. Cost of Artificial Limbs, cost of prosthetic devices implanted during surgical procedure like  Pacemaker, 
orthopedic implants, cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents.  
ix. Relevant laboratory diagnostic tests, X -ray, and other Radiology tests and such similar expenses that are 
medically necessary prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner.  
x. Emergency Inpatient Hospitalization for  Dental Treatment  arising from an Accident  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, Deductibles, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions 
contained or otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
The Deductib le is Optional and the amount will apply as specified in the Policy Schedule, if opted.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 14 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
2. Pre-Hospitalization  
The Medical Expenses incurred during the 45 days immediately before You were Hospitalized, provided that: Such 
Medical Expenses were incurred for t he same Illness/Injury for which subsequent Hospitalization was required, and 
We have accepted an Inpatient Hospitalization claim under Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment.).  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and defi nitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
3. Post -Hospitalization  
The Medical Expenses incurred during the 90 days immediately after You were discharged post Hospitalization 
provided that: Such costs are incurred in respect of the same Illness/Injury for which the earlier Hospitalization was 
required, and We have accepted an Inpatient Hospitalization claim under Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment. .  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and defini tions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
4. Local  (Road)  Ambulance  
We will pay the reasonable cost, specified in the Policy Schedule, incurred on an ambulance offered by a 
healthcare or ambulance service provider for transferring You to the nearest Hospital with adequate Emergency 
facilities for the provision of health services following an Emergency or out of medical necessity.  
 
We will also reimburse the expenses incurred on an ambulance offered by a healthcare or ambulance service  
provider for transferring You from the Hospital where You were admitted initially to another Hospital with higher 
medical facilities.  
Claim under this section shall be payable by Us only when:  
i. Such life threatening Emergency condition is certified by the Medical Practitioner, and  
ii. We have accepted Your  Claim under "In -patient Hospitalization Treatment" or "Day Care Procedures" 
section of the Policy.  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions containe d or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
 
5. Day Care Procedures  
We will pay You the medical expenses as listed under Section C, Part B,I -1 - In-patient Hospitalization Treatment 
for Day Care Procedures / Surgeries taken as an Inpatient in a Hospital or Day Care Centre  but not in the 
outpatient department. List of Day Care Procedures is as given in the annexure I of Policy wordings.  
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expr essed in this Policy.  
 
6. Living Donor Medical Costs  
We will pay expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule, towards organ donor’s treatment for 
harvesting of the donated organ, provided that,  
a) The organ donor is any person whose organ has bee n made available in accordance and in compliance with 
the local regulation and the organ donated is for the use of the Insured, and  
b) We have accepted an Inpatient Hospitalization claim for the Insured under In -patient Hospitalization treatment.  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
7. Air Ambulance (Applicable to Imperial  Plan only)  
We will pay for ambulance transportation in an airplane or helicopt er for Emergency life threatening health 
conditions which require immediate and rapid ambulance transportation from the site of first occurrence of the 
Illness/Accident to the nearest Hospital. The claim would be reimbursed up to the limits as specified in  the Policy 
Schedule provided that We have accepted an Inpatient Hospitalization claim under Inpatient Hospitalization 
Treatment. (Section C, Part B, I -1). 
Return transportation to the client’s home by any mode of transport is excluded.  
This cover is subje ct to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 15 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
NOTE:  This cover is on cashless  basis  only. To avail this service, You must contact Us on +353 1 630 1301. From 
this point on wards, We will organize and coordinate for the Air Ambulance until You arrive safely at Your 
destination of care. If ambulance services are not organized by Us, We reserve the right to decline all costs 
incurred.  
 
8. Air Ambulance + Medical Evacuation (Applic able to Imperial  Plus Plan only)  
If You contract any  Illness/ sustain any Injury which necessitates Emergency Hospitalization, We will pay 
reasonable and customary expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule, for Your Medical Evacuation 
to the nearest appropriate medical centre (which may or may not be in Your home country) by ambulance, 
helicopter or airplane provided that:  
a. The medical evacuation should be requested by Your Doctor, and will be carried out in the most economical 
way that is a ppropriate to Your medical condition  
b. We have accepted an Inpatient Hospitalization claim under Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment. (Section C,  Part 
B ,I-1). 
c. adequately screened blood is unavailable in an Emergency  
d. necessary treatment is not available loca lly  
 
If You can’t travel for medical reasons following discharge from an Inpatient episode of care, We will cover the 
reasonable cost of hotel accommodation in a private en -suite room for up to seven days.  
 
If You are evacuated to the nearest appropriate medical centre for ongoing treatment, We will cover the reasonable 
cost of hotel accommodation in a private en -suite room. This cost must be more economical than the cost of a 
series of journeys between the nearest appropriate medical centre and Your princ ipal country of residence.  
 
Following completion of treatment, We will also cover the cost of Your  return trip  (i.e. one way ticket)  at economy 
rates to Your  principal country of residence.  
 
Exclusions  (Applicable to Medical Evacuation ): 
a. costs for hotel suites, four or five -star hotel acco mmodation or hotel accommodation for an accompanying 
person  
b. travel costs for accompanying person  
c. travel costs of Insured family members in the event of an evacuation  
 
Where adequately screened blood is not available locally, We will, where appropriate, try  to locate and transport 
screened blood and sterile transfusion equipment, if this is advised by the treating Doctor and Our own medical 
experts. We and Our agents accept no liability if We are unsuccessful or if contaminated blood or equipment is 
used by the treating authority.  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
NOTE:  This cover is on cashless basis only . You must contact Us on +353 1 630 130 1 at the first indication that 
You need an evacuation. From this point onwards, We will organize and coordinate the evacuation until You arrive 
safely at Your destination of care. If evacuation services are not organized by Us, We reserve the right to decl ine 
all costs incurred.  
 
9. Mental Illness Treatment  
We will pay the Customary and Reasonable expenses for In -patient treatment of Mental Illness  (as specified under 
Annexure IV) , provided this treatment is availed in a recognized psychiatric unit of a Hospit al, up to Sum Insured as  
specified in the Policy Schedule.  
The above coverage is subject to fulfilment of following conditions:  
a.  Mental Illness treatment  is only covered where patient is diagnosed and treated by a psychiatrist, clinical 
psychologist or li censed psychotherapist.  
b. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment.  
c. All day -care or Inpatient admissions must include prescription medication related to the condition.  
d. The treatment should be taken in Mental Health Establishment either wholl y or partly meant for the care of 
persons with mental Illness, where persons with mental Illness are admitted for treatment.  
 
Exclusions:  Mental Illness Treatment  does not cover : 
a. Any expenses for Mental Illness Treatment related to Alcoholism, drug or subs tance abuse or any addictive 
condition and consequences thereof.  . 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 16 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
b. Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the same 
and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions  
c. Alternate treatment other  than Allopathic treatment are not covered.  
d. For autism spectrum disorder, admissions, stays or day care treatment at specialised educational facilities are 
not covered.  
e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
10. Rehabilitation  
Rehabilitation is defined as a set of interventions designed to optimize functioning and reduce disability in 
individuals with health co nditions in interaction with their environment. It aims to restore original form or function 
after an acute Illness, Injury or surgery.  
Rehabilitation is a treatment that combines therapies such as physical, occupational and speech therapy.  
We will pay Yo u up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule for the cost of In -patient Rehabilitation provided  
a. it is carried out by a Medical Practitioner specializing in rehabilitation; and  
b. it is carried out in a licensed rehabilitation Hospital or unit;  
c. We have accepted an Inpatient Hospitalization claim for the Insured under In Patient Hospitalization Treatment  
and rehabilitation starts within 14 days of discharge from Hospital following acute medical and/or surgical 
treatment  
d. the treatment could not be carried  out on an out -patient basis  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
11. Accommodation costs for one parent staying in Hospital with an Insured child  under 18 years of age  
(Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only)  
We will pay for reasonable accommodation costs of one parent for the duration of the Insured child’s admission to 
Hospital for eligible treatment under Section C, Part B.1 -Inpatient Hospitaliz ation Treatment, up to the limit 
specified in the Policy Schedule. If a suitable bed is not available in the Hospital, We will contribute the equivalent 
of the daily room rate in a three -star hotel towards any hotel costs incurred.  
This benefit would be ap plicable for the duration of Hospitalization of the Insured child.  
The Policy will not cover sundry expenses such as meals, phone calls or newspapers.  
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions conta ined or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
12. Emergency treatment outside area of cover (Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only if “Excluding USA” cover 
is opted)  
We will pay the Customary and Reasonable expenses, up to the limit specified in the Policy Sche dule, incurred for 
treatment of medical emergencies which occur during business or holiday trips outside Your  area of cover. Cover is 
provided for up to six weeks per trip within the Sum Insured limit. It includes treatment required due to an Accident 
or the sudden beginning or worsening of a severe Illness which presents an immediate threat to Your  health.  
Treatment by a Doctor must start within 24 hours of the Emergency event.  
 
Exclusion:  
Cover is not provided for curative or follow -up non -Emergency trea tment, even if You are deemed unable  to trav el 
to a country within Your geographical area of cover. Nor does it extend to charges relating to maternity, pregnancy, 
childbirth or any complications of pregnancy or childbirth.  
This cover is subject to the Su m Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
13. Medical repatriation (Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only)  
If the necessary treatment for which You are covered isn't available locally  You can choose to be medically 
evacuated to Your home country for treatment, instead of to the nearest appropriate medical centre.  This only 
applies when Your home country is within Your geographical area of cover. Following completion of treatment, We 
will also cover the cost of Your return trip  (i.e. one way ticket)  at economy rates, to the country from where you 
were repatriated.  
 
The return journey must take place within one month after treatment has been completed.  
 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 17 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
If You contract any  Illness/ sust ain any Injury which necessitates Hospitalization, We will pay reasonable and 
customary expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule, if You choose to be medically  repatriated  to  
Your  home country for treatment, instead of to the nearest ap propriate medical centre, provided that:  
a.  Your  home country is within  Your  geographical area of cover  
b. Where ongoing treatment is required, We will cover hotel accommodation costs  
c. Repatriation in the event of unavailability of adequately screened blood  
 
If medical necessity prevents an immediate return trip following discharge from an Inpatient episode of care, We 
will cover the reasonable cost of hotel accommodation costs up to seven days.  
 
Exclusions:  
a. travel costs for accompanying person  
b. travel costs of I nsured family members in the event of repatriation  
c. travel costs of Insured members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions cont ained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
NOTE:  This cover is on cashless basis only . You must contact Us on +353 1 630 1301 at the first indication that 
repatriation is required. From this point onwards We will organise and coordinate all stages of the  repatriation until 
You arrive safely at Your destination of care. If the repatriation is not organised by Us, We reserve the right to 
decline all costs incurred.  
 
14. Repatriation of mortal remains (Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only)  
Repatriation of morta l remains is the transportation of the Insured deceased remains from the principal country of 
residence to the country of burial. We cover costs such as: embalming, a container legally appropriate for 
transportation, shipping and the necessary government a uthorisations. Cremation costs will only be covered if the 
cremation is required for legal purposes. We do not cover costs incurred by anyone accompanying the remains.   
 
Exclusions : 
Expense incurred for any person accompanying the remains is not covered.  
 
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
NOTE : This cover is on cashless basis only . To avail this service, You must contact Us on +353 1 630 1301. From 
this point onwards, We will organize and coordinate for the Repatriation of Mortal remains. If these services are not 
organized by Us, We reserve the right to decline all costs incurred.  
 
 
15. In-patient cash benefit (Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only ) 
We will pay Daily Cash Benefit as specified in the Policy Schedule for maximum 25 nights when You receive 
Inpatient treatment free of charge for a medical condition that is covered by Us.  
This benefit is payable after You are discharged from Hospital.  
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
16. Palliative care (Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only)  
We will pay the Reasonable and Customary expenses in curred, up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule, on 
diagnosis of a Terminal Illness, for any ongoing treatment, given on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, that aims 
to alleviate the physical/psychological suffering associated with progressive,  incurable Illness and to maintain 
quality of life. It includes Inpatient, day -care and out -patient treatment. We will pay for physical care, psychological 
care, Hospital or hospice accommodation, nursing care and prescription drugs.  
This cover is subject to the Sum Insured, sub -limits, terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or 
otherwise expressed in this Policy.  
 
17. Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies  
We will pay the Customary and Reasonable expenses  for the Modern Treat ment Methods as mentioned in 
Annexure III subject to the Sum Insured , terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions contained or otherwise 
expressed in this Policy.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 18 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
II. OUT -PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER (Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan  only)  
 
1. Out-patient Treatment  
If You consult a consultant/Medical Practitioner on Outpatient basis for the Illness/ Injury contracted during the 
Policy Period, We will pay You Out Patient expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule for  
a. Medic al Practitioner fees  
b. Specialist fees  
c. Diagnostic tests  
d. Prescription drugs  
 
Exclusions:  
a. During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all 
claims under out -patient except those arising out of Accide ntal Injury, however the waiting period would not 
be applied during subsequent renewals.  
b. Out-patient Dental Treatment expenses will not be covered  
 
2. Physiotherapy Benefit  
We will pay the expenses incurred towards Prescribed Physiotherapy taken on Out -patien t basis for Illness/Injury 
contracted during the Policy Period, maximum up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule, provided that,  
a. The treatment is referred by a Doctor or prescribed by a Specialist consultant for Muskulo - skeletal 
/Neurological dise ases / Injuries or other Systemic diseases  
b. The treatment should be carried out by a registered physiotherapist in a Hospital or a clinic as defined under 
the Policy  
c. Physiotherapy is initially restricted to 12 sessions per condition, after which treatment m ust be reviewed by the 
Doctor who referred You. If You need further sessions, You must send Us a new progress report after every 
set of 12 sessions, indicating the medical necessity for more treatment.  
 
Exclusion:  
a. During the first year of Global Health Ca re Policy with Us, 90 days waiting period would be applicable for all 
claims under Physiotherapy Benefit except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the waiting period 
would not be applied during subsequent renewals  
b. Physiotherapy does not includ e therapies such as Rolfing, massage, Pilates, Fango and Milta.  
 
3. Alternate/Complementary Treatment Expenses  
If You consult a therapist on Outpatient basis for the Illness/ Injury contracted during the Policy Period, We will pay 
You Out Patient expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule for Alternate treatment methods namely 
chiropractic treatment, osteopathy, Chinese herbal medicine, homeopathy, acupuncture and podiatry as practised 
by approved therapists.  
 
Exclusions : 
During the first year o f Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all claims 
under Alternate/Complementary Treatment Expenses except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the 
waiting period would not be applied during subsequent  renewals.  
 
 
III. DENTAL PLAN BENEFITS (Optional)  
In consideration of payment of additional premium by the Insured to the Company and realization thereof by the 
Company, it is hereby agreed and declared that Global Health Care P olicy is extended to pay the expe nses 
incurred for the below mentioned Dental related covers with a mandatory Co -Payment of 20% on each and every 
claim, subject to terms, conditions and definitions, exclusions, up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule.  
 
1. Dental treatment outside In dia 
We will pay Customary and Reasonable expenses up to the limits specifies in the Policy Schedule incurred for 
Dental Treatment which includes annual check -up, simple fillings related to cavities or decay, root canal 
treatment and dental prescription dru gs. 
 
2. Dental surgery outside India  
We will pay Customary and Reasonable expenses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule incurred for 
Dental Surgery which includes the surgical extraction of teeth, as well as other tooth -related surgical procedure s 
such as apicoectomy, Surgical removal of cysts, Orthognathic surgeries for the correction of malocclusion and 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 19 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
dental prescription drugs. All investigative procedures that establish the need for dental surgery such as 
laboratory tests, X -rays, CT scans an d MRI(s) are included under this benefit.  
 
Exclusions : 
 Dental surgery does not cover surgical treatment that relates to dental implants.  
 Dental Prostheses, dental implants, orthodontics  
 
3. Periodontics outside India  
We will pay Customary and Reasonable expen ses up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule incurred for 
treatment related to gum disease.  
 
Exclusions applicable to Dental Plan Benefits : 
a. During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for  all 
claims except those arising out of Accidental Injury, however the waiting period would not be applied during 
subsequent renewals.  
 
TABLE OF BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER  
Certain benefits would require You to seek pre -approval at least 72 hours pri or to admission or availing the benefit 
in case of planned treatments. For more details, please refer the Section E 4 5. 
 
COVER  IMPERIAL  PLAN  IMPERIAL  PLUS PLAN  
In-patient Hospitalization 
Treatment  Limits  USD 
100,000  USD 
150,000  USD 
200,000  USD 
300,000  USD   
500,000  USD 
1,000,000  
Deductible options  0 / USD 500 / USD 1,000  
(on annual aggregate basis)  
In-patient benefits  
Hospital accommodation  
(Room rent)  Single Private Air Conditioned Room  
Hospital accommodation  
(ICU)  At Actual  
Pre-hospitalization  45 days  
Post-hospitalization  90 days  
Local (Road) Ambulance  Up to Sum Insured  
Day Care Procedures  Up to Sum Insured  
Living donor medical costs  USD 30,000  USD 50,000  
Air Ambulance * USD 7,500  NA NA NA 
Air Ambulance + Medical 
Evacuation * NA Up to In -
patient Su m 
Insured  Up to In -
patient Sum 
Insured  Up to In -
patient Sum 
Insured  
Mental Illness Treatment  Up To Sum Insured  
Rehabilitation  USD 750  USD 2,300  
Accommodation costs for 
one parent staying in 
Hospital with an Insured 
child under 18 years of age  NA Up to Sum Insured  
Emergency treatment 
outside area of cover  NA Up to Sum Insured for maximum 6 Weeks  
per trip  
Medical repatriation*  NA Up to Sum Insured  
Repatriation of mortal 
remains * NA USD 13,500  
Inpatient cash Benefit  NA USD 175 Per night up to max 25 ni ghts 
Palliative care  NA Up to Sum Insured  
Modern Treatment Methods 
and Advancement in 
Technologies  Up to Sum Insured  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 20 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
Note: The total Sum Insured payable under all the above covers will not exceed the In -patient Hospitalization 
Treatment Limits  
*The cove rs will be on cashless basis only.  
Out-patient benefits  
COVER  IMPERIAL  PLAN  IMPERIAL  PLUS PLAN  
Maximum out -patient plan 
benefit for international 
treatments only  
NA USD 1,600  USD 2,400  USD 4,200  
Out-patient Treatment  
(Medical Practitioner fees  
Special ist fees  
Diagnostic tests  
Prescription drugs)  
Note: Excluding out -patient 
Dental Treatment  USD 1,000  USD 1,500  USD 2,500  
Physiother apy Benefit  
(Prescribed Physiotherapy ) USD 300  USD 450  USD 850  
Alternate/Complementary 
Treatment Expenses  
(Chiropractic treatment, 
osteopathy, homeopathy, 
Chinese herbal medicine, 
acupuncture and podiatry ) USD 300  USD 450  USD 850  
Dental plan benefits ( optional)  
COVER  IMPERIAL  PLAN  IMPERIAL  PLUS PLAN  
Maximum dental plan 
benefit for international 
treatments only  USD 
350 USD 450  USD 600  USD 2,300  
Dental treatment outside India  20% Co -Payment  20% Co -Payment  
Dental surgery outside India  20% Co -Payment  20% Co -Payment  
Periodontics outside India  20% Co -Payment  20% Co -Payment  
 
 
SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS - STANDARD EXCLUSIONS  APPLICABLE TO PART A - DOMESTIC COVER  
UNDER SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY  
 
1) Pre-Existing Diseases ( Code  -Excl01)  
a. Expenses relat ed to the treatment of a Pre-Existing Disease  (PED) and its direct complications shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global 
Health Care Policy with Us.  
b. In case of enhancement of S um Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.  
c. If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the Portability norms of the extant 
IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for th e same would be reduced to the extent of prior 
coverage.  
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any Pre-Existing Disease is subject to the same 
being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer . 
 
2) Specified disease/proce dure waiting period ( Code  - Excl02)  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the 
expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global Health Care Policy 
with Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident .  
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.  
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre -Existing diseases, 
then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.  
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted 
without a specific exclusion.  
e. If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability 
stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.  
f. List of specific diseases/procedures is as bel ow 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 21 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers  2. Cataracts,  
3. Any type of fistula  4. Macular Degeneration  
5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy  6. Hernia of all types  
7. All types of sinuses  8. Fissure in ano  
9. Haemorrhoids, piles  10. Hydrocele  
11. Dysfunctiona l uterine bleeding  12. Fibromyoma  
13. Endometriosis  14. Hysterectomy  
15. Uterine Prolapse  16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems  
17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/ 
adenoids/ paranasal sinuses  18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/ 
nodu les/polyps of any kind including breast lumps 
with exception of Malignant tumor or growth  
 19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis  
20. Pancreatitis  21. All forms of Cirrhosis  
22. Gout and rheumatism  23. Tonsilitis  
24. Surgery for varicose veins and 
varicose ulcers  25. Chronic Kidney Disease  
26. Alzheimer’s Disease  27. Joint replacement surgery  
28. Surgery for vertebral column 
disorders  (unless necessitated due 
to an Accident ) 29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum  
30. Hypertrophie d turbinate  31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies  
32. Treatment for correction of eye 
sight due to refractive error 
recommended by Ophthalmologist 
for medical reasons with refractive 
error greater or equal to 7.5  33. Bariatric Surgery  
34. Parkins on’s Disease  35. Genetic disorders  
 
3) 30-day waiting period ( Code  - Excl03)  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness  within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall 
be excluded except claims arising due to an Accident , provided the same  are covered.  
b. This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.  
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting 
higher Sum Insured subseque ntly. 
 
4) Investigation & Evaluation ( Code - Excl04)  
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded.  
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment a re 
excluded.  
 
5) Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care ( Code  -Excl05)  
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also 
includes:  
b. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for perso nal care such as help with activities of daily living 
such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non -skilled persons.  
c. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual  needs.  
 
6) Obesity/Weight Control ( Code - Excl06)  
a. Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:  
b. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor  
c. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported  by clinical protocols  
d. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and  
e. Body Mass Index (BMI);  
i. greater than or equal to 40 or  
ii. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -morbidities following failure 
of less invasive met hods of weight loss:  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 22 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
f. Obesity -related cardiomyopathy  
g. Coronary heart disease  
h. Severe Sleep Apnea  
i. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes  
 
7) Change -of-gender treatments ( Code - Excl07)  
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristic s of the body to those 
of the opposite sex.  
 
8) Cosmetic or plastic Surgery ( Code - Excl08)  
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction 
following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of Medicall y Necessary Treatment  to remove a direct and 
immediate health risk to the Insured . For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the 
attending Medical Practitioner.  
 
9) Hazardous or Adventure sports: ( Code  -Excl09)  
Expenses related to  any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure 
sports, including but not limited to, para -jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing 
or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, d eep-sea diving.  
 
10) Breach of law ( Code  -Excl10)  
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured committing or attempting to commit 
a breach of law with criminal intent.  
 
11) Excluded Providers ( Code  -Excl11)  
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital  or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider 
specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible.  
However, in case of life threatening situations or followi ng an Accident , expenses up to the stage of stabilization 
are payable but not the complete claim.  
 
12) Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof. (Code  
-Excl12)  
 
13) Treatments received in heath hydros, n ature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds registered 
as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic 
reasons. (Code  -Excl13)  
 
14) Dietary supplements and substances that ca n be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to 
Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner  as part of Hospitalization  
claim or  Day Care Treatment . (Code  -Excl14)  
 
15) Refractive Error ( Code  -Excl15)  
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres.  
 
16) Unproven Treatments ( Code  -Excl16)  
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. 
Unproven Treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to 
support their effectiveness.  
 
17) Sterility and Infertility ( Code  -Excl17)  
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes:  
a. Any type of contrac eption, sterilization  
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive technologies such 
as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI  
c. Gestational Surrogacy  
d. Reversal of sterilization  
 
18) Maternity ( Code  -Excl18):  
a. Medical Treatment Expens es traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections 
incurred during Hospitalization ) except ectopic pregnancy.  
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an Accident ) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy during 
the Policy Period . 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 23 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS – SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS  APPLICABLE TO PART A - DOMESTIC COVER  UNDER 
SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY  
 
We do not cover the following expenses unless indicated otherwise in the Table of Benefits or in any written Policy  
endorsement  
 
1) Any  Dental Treatment  that comprises of cosmetic surgery, dentures, dental prosthesis, dental implants, 
orthodontics, surgery of any kind unless as a result of Accidental Bodily Injury to natural teeth and also requiring 
Hospitalization  unless specified .  
2) Medical expenses where Inpatient care is not warranted and does not require supervision of qualified nursing 
staff and qualified Medical Practitioner  round the clock  
3) War, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be de clared or not), civil war, commotion, unrest, 
rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalization or requisition of or 
damage by or under the order of any government or public local authority.  
Any Medical expen ses incurred due to Act of Terrorism will be covered under the Policy.  
4) The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, dentures, artificial teeth and all other external 
appliances and/or devices whether for diagnosis or treatment except for  Cost of Artificial   Limbs,   cost of  
prosthetic devices implanted during surgical procedure like Pacemaker, orthopedic implants, cardiac valve 
replacements, vascular stents etc.  
5) Treatment for any other system other than modern medicine (allopathy)  
6) External medical equipment of any kind used at home as post Hospitalization care including cost of instrument 
used in the treatment of Sleep Apnoea Syndrome (C.P.A.P), Continuous Peritoneal Ambulatory Dialysis (C.P.A.D) 
and Oxygen concentrator for Bronchial As thmatic condition.  
7) Congenital external diseases or defects or anomalies, growth hormone therapy, stem cell implantation or surgery 
except for Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions.  
8) Intentional self -Injury  (includ ing but not limited to the use or misuse of any intoxicating drugs or alcohol)  
9) Vaccination or inoculation unless forming a part of post bite treatment or if medically necessary and forming a 
part of treatment recommended by the treating Medical Practitione r.  
10) All non -medical Items as per Annexure II . 
11) Circumcision unless required for the treatment of Illness or Accidental bodily Injury . 
12) Treatment for any medical conditions arising directly or indirectly from chemical contamination, radioactivity or 
any nucle ar material, including the combustion of nuclear fuel.  
13) Alternate/  Complementary treatment, with the exception of those treatments shown in the Table of Benefits.  
14) Expenses incurred because of complications directly caused by an Illness , Injury  or treatment for which cover is 
excluded or limited under Your plan.  
15) Consultations performed and any drugs or treatments prescribed by You, Your spouse, parents or children.  
16) Dental veneers and related procedures, unless medically necessary.  
17) Costs in respect of a family  therapist or counsellor for out -patient mental illness treatment.  
18) Doctor’s fees for the completion of a Claim Form or other administration charges.  
19) Care and/or treatment of intentionally caused diseases or self -inflicted injuries, including a suicide atte mpt. 
20) Investigations into and treatment for loss of hair, including hair replacement unless the loss of hair is due to cancer 
treatment.  
21) Treatment required as a result of medical error.  
22) Products that can be purchased without a Doctor’s prescription, except where a specific benefit covering these 
costs appears in the Table of Benefits.  
23) Treatment of sleep disorders, including insomnia, narcolepsy, snoring and bruxism, except medically necessary 
Inpatient  treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea.  
24) Travel costs to and from medical facilities (including parking costs) for treatment, except when covered under "  
Local (Road) ambulance", "Medical evacuation" and "Medical repatriation" benefits.  
25) Tumour marker testing, except for medically necessary testing during the inv estigation or treatment of cancer.  
26) Medical evacuation/repatriation from a vessel at sea to a medical facility on land.  
27) Organ Transplants that involve animal organs or organs which are manufactured using advanced technology like, 
but not limited to, 3D Prin ting. Expenses incurred during the acquisition of an organ relating to stem cell storage 
and banking.  
28) The following benefits or any adverse consequences or complications relating to them, unless otherwise indicated 
in Your Table of Benefits:  
 Dental treatm ent, dental surgery, periodontics, orthodontics and dental prostheses. The only exception is 
oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures, which are covered within the overall limit of Your In -patient Plan  
 Dietician fees  
 Expenses for one person accompanying an evacuated/repatriated person  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 24 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 Out-patient treatment  
 Prescribed medical aids  
 Preventive treatment  
 Travel costs of Insured  family members in the event of an evacuation/repatriation  
 Travel costs of Insured  family members in the event of the repatriation of mortal remains  
 Travel costs of Insured  members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died  
29) Exclusions  applicable to Mental Illness Treatment : 
a. Any expenses for Mental Illness Treatment related to Alcoholism, drug or substance abu se or any addictive 
condition and consequences thereof. . 
b. Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the 
same and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions.  
c. Alternate treatment other than All opathic treatment are not covered.  
d. For autism spectrum disorder, admissions, stays or day care treatment at specialised educational facilities 
are not covered.  
e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness.  
 
30) The Standard Exclusion under “Investigation & Evaluat ion (Code -Excl04) (a) Expenses related to any 
admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only” are excluded even if the same requires 
confinement at a Hospital.  
 
  
SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS - STANDARD EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO PART B - INTERNATIO NAL COVER  
UNDER SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY  
 
A. Applicable for Part B -I (IN-PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER  ) 
 
1) Pre-Existing Diseases ( Code -Excl01)  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-Existing Disease  (PED) and its direct compl ications shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global 
Health Care  Policy with Insurer .  
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum In sured increase.  
c. If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant 
IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior 
coverage.  
d. Coverage u nder the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre -existing disease is subject to the same 
being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer . 
 
2) Specified disease/procedure waiting period ( Code -Excl02)  
a. Expenses related to the treatment  of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the 
expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global Health Care  Policy 
with Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due  to an Accident .  
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.  
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre -Existing diseases, 
then the longer o f the two waiting periods shall apply.  
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted 
without a specific exclusion.  
e. If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under  the applicable norms on portability 
stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.  
f. List of specific diseases/procedures is as below  
 
1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers  2. Cataracts,  
3. Any type of  fistula  4. Macular Degeneration  
5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy  6. Hernia of all types  
7. All types of sinuses  8. Fissure in ano  
9. Haemorrhoids, piles  10. Hydrocele  
11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding  12. Fibromyoma  
13. Endometriosis  14. Hysterectomy  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 25 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
15. Uterine Prolapse  16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems  
17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/ 
adenoids/ paranasal sinuses  18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/ 
nodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps 
with exception of Malig nant tumor or growth  
 19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis  
20. Pancreatitis  21. All forms of Cirrhosis  
22. Gout and rheumatism  23. Tonsilitis  
24. Surgery for varicose veins and 
varicose ulcers  25. Chronic Kidney Disease  
26. Alzheimer’s  Disease  27. Joint replacement surgery  
28. Surgery for vertebral column 
disorders  (unless necessitated due 
to an Accident ) 29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum  
30. Hypertrophied turbinate  31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies  
32. Treatm ent for correction of eye 
sight due to refractive error 
recommended by Ophthalmologist 
for medical reasons with refractive 
error greater or equal to 7.5  33. Bariatric Surgery  
34. Parkinson’s Disease  35. Genetic disorders  
 
3) 30-day waiting period ( Code -Excl03) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness  within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall 
be excluded except claims arising due to an Accident , provided the same are covered.  
b. This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured ha s Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.  
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting 
higher Sum Insured subsequently.  
 
4) Investigation & Evaluation ( Code -Excl04)  
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded .  
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are 
excluded.  
 
5) Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care ( Code -Excl05)  
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also 
includes:  
b. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living 
such as bat hing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non -skilled persons.  
c. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.  
 
6) Obesity/Weight Control ( Code -Excl06)  
a. Expenses related to  the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:  
b. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor  
c. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols  
d. The member has to be 18 years of age or old er and  
e. Body Mass Index (BMI);  
i. greater than or equal to 40 or  
ii. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -morbidities following failure 
of less invasive methods of weight loss:  
f. Obesity -related cardiomyopathy  
g. Coronary heart  disease  
h. Severe Sleep Apnea  
i. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes  
 
7) Change -of-gender treatments ( Code -Excl07)  
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those 
of the opposite sex.  
 
8) Cosmetic or plastic Su rgery ( Code -Excl08)  
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction 
following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of Medically Necessary Treatment  to remove a direct and 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 26 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
immediate health risk t o the Insured . For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the 
attending Medical Practitioner.  
 
9) Hazardous or Adventure sports: ( Code -Excl09)  
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in  hazardous or adventure 
sports, including but not limited to, para -jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing 
or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep -sea diving.  
 
10) Breach of law ( Code -Excl10)  
Expenses for treatment d irectly arising from or consequent upon any Insured committing or attempting to commit 
a breach of law with criminal intent.  
 
11) Excluded Providers ( Code -Excl11)  
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital  or by any Medical Practitioner or any other p rovider 
specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible.  
However, in case of life threatening situations or following an Accident , expenses up to the stage of stabilization 
are payable b ut not the complete claim.  
 
12) Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof. (Code -
Excl12)  
 
13) Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds regis tered 
as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic 
reasons. (Code -Excl13)  
 
14) Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to 
Vitamin s, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner  as part of Hospitalization  
claim or Day  Care Procedure . (Code -Excl14)  
 
15) Refractive Error ( Code -Excl15)  
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refrac tive error less than 7.5 dioptres.  
 
16) Unproven Treatments ( Code -Excl16)  
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. 
Unproven Treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significa nt medical documentation to 
support their effectiveness.  
 
17) Sterility and Infertility ( Code -Excl17)  
a. Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes:  
b. Any type of contraception, sterilization  
c. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial ins emination and advanced reproductive technologies such 
as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI  
d. Gestational Surrogacy  
e. Reversal of sterilization  
 
18) Maternity ( Code -Excl18):  
a. Medical Treatment Expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sec tions 
incurred during Hospitalization ) except ectopic pregnancy.  
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an Accident ) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy during 
the Policy  Period . 
 
SECTION D) EXCLUSIONS – SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO INTERN ATIONAL COVER  UNDER 
SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY  
 
B. Applicable to Part B -I, B-II, B-III 
We do not cover the following expenses unless indicated otherwise in the Table of Benefits or in any written Policy  
endorsement  
1) Any  Dental Treatment  that comprises of cosmetic surgery, dentures, dental prosthesis, dental implants, 
orthodontics, surgery of any kind unless as a result of Accidental Bodily Injury to natural teeth and also requiring 
Hospitalization  unless specified .  
2) Medical expenses where Inp atient care is not warranted and does not require supervision of qualified nursing 
staff and qualified Medical Practitioner  round the clock  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 27 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
3) War, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, unrest, 
rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalization or requisition of or 
damage by or under the order of any government or public local authority.  
Any Medical expenses incurred due to Act of Terrorism will be c overed under the Policy.  
4) The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, dentures, artificial teeth and all other external 
appliances and/or devices whether for diagnosis  or treatment except for Cost of Artificial Limbs,  cost of prosthetic 
devices implanted during surgical procedure like Pacema ker, orthopedic implants, cardiac valve replacements, 
vascular stents etc.  
5) Treatment for any other system other than modern medicine (allopathy)  
6) External medical equipment of any kind used at home as p ost Hospitalization care including cost of instrument 
used in the treatment of Sleep Apnoea Syndrome (C.P.A.P), Continuous Peritoneal Ambulatory Dialysis (C.P.A.D) 
and Oxygen concentrator for Bronchial Asthmatic condition.  
7) Congenital external diseases or d efects or anomalies, growth hormone therapy, stem cell implantation or surgery 
except for Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions.  
8) Intentional self -Injury  (including but not limited to the use or misuse of any into xicating drugs or alcohol)  
9) Vaccination or inoculation unless forming a part of post bite treatment or if medically necessary and forming a 
part of treatment recommended by the treating Medical Practitioner .  
10) All non -medical Items as per Annexure II  
11) Circumc ision unless required for the treatment of Illness or Accidental bodily Injury ,  
12) Treatment for any medical conditions arising directly or indirectly from chemical contamination, radioactivity or 
any nuclear material, including the combustion of nuclear fue l. 
13) Alternate/Complementary treatment, with the exception of those treatments shown in the Table of Benefits.  
14) Expenses incurred because of complications directly caused by an Illness , Injury  or treatment for which cover is 
excluded or limited under  Your  plan. 
15) Consultations performed and any drugs or treatments prescribed by You,  Your  spouse, parents or children.  
16) Dental veneers and related procedures, unless medically necessary.  
17) Costs in respect of a family therapist or counsellor for out -patient mental ill ness treatment.  
18) Doctor’s fees for the completion of a Claim Form or other administration charges.  
19) Care and/or treatment of intentionally caused diseases or self -inflicted injuries, including a suicide attempt.  
20) Investigations into and treatment for loss of hair, including hair replacement unless the loss of hair is due to cancer 
treatment.  
21) Treatment required as a result of medical error.  
22) Products that can be purchased without a Doctor’s prescription, except where a specific benefit covering these 
costs appea rs in the Table of Benefits.  
23) Treatment of sleep disorders, including insomnia, narcolepsy, snoring and bruxism, except medically necessary 
Inpatient  treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea.  
24) Travel costs to and from medical facilities (including parking cost s) for treatment, except when covered under 
"Local (Road ) ambulance", "Medical evacuation" and "Medical repatriation" benefits.  
25) Treatment in the USA  if We believe that cover was taken out with the purpose of travelling to the USA  to get 
treatment for a con dition or symptoms You were aware of:  
 before being Insured  with Us 
 before having the USA in  Your  region of cover.  
If We paid any claims in these circumstances, We reserve the right to seek reimbursement from  You. 
26) Treatment outside the geographical area of cover unless for emergencies or authorised by Us. 
27) Tumour marker testing, except for medically necessary testing during the investigation or treatment of cancer.  
28) Medical evacuation/repatriation from a vessel at sea to a medical facility on land.  
29) Organ Tr ansplants that involve animal organs or organs which are manufactured using advanced technology like, 
but not limited to, 3D Printing. Expenses incurred during the acquisition of an organ relating to stem cell storage 
and banking.  
30) The following benefits or  any adverse consequences or complications relating to them, unless otherwise indicated 
in  Your  Table of Benefits:  
 Dental treatment, dental surgery, periodontics, orthodontics and dental prostheses. The only exception is 
oral and maxillofacial surgical p rocedures, which are covered within the overall limit of  Your  In-patient Plan  
 Dietician fees  
 Expenses for one person accompanying an evacuated/repatriated person  
 Home delivery  
 Infertility treatment  
 Laser eye treatment.  
 Out-patient treatment  
 Prescribed glasses and contact lenses including eye examination  
 Prescribed medical aids  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 28 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 Preventive treatment  
 Routine maternity, Routine Delivery and newborn care and Complications of childbirth  
 Travel costs of Insured  family members in the event of an evacuation/re patriation  
 Travel costs of Insured  family members in the event of the repatriation of mortal remains  
 Travel costs of Insured  members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died  
 Vaccinations  
31) Air Ambulance + Medical Evacuation (Appli cable to Imperial  Plus Plan only)  
a. costs for hotel suites, four or five -star hotel accommodation or hotel accommodation for an accompanying 
person  
b. travel costs for accompanying person  
c. travel costs of Insured  family members in the event of an eva cuation  
32) Mental Illness Treatment  
a. Any expenses for Mental Illness Treatment related to Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive 
condition and consequences thereof. . 
b. Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the 
same and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions  
c. Alternate treatment other than Allopathic treatment are not covered  
d. For autism spectrum disorder, admissions, stays or d ay care treatment at specialised educational facilities 
are not covered.  
e. Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness.  
33) Emergency treatment outside area of cover  
Cover is not provided for curative or follow -up non -Emergency treatment, even if You are deemed unable to 
travel to a country within  Your  geographical area of cover. Nor does it extend to charges relating to maternity, 
pregnancy, childbirth or any complications of pregnancy or childbirth . 
34) Medical repatriation  
a. travel costs for acc ompanying person  
b. travel costs of Insured  family members in the event of repatriation  
c. travel costs of Insured  members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died  
35) Repatr iation of mortal remains  
Expense incurred for any per son accompanying the remains is not covered.  
36) If the international travel is intentionally undertaken with an intention of taking/undergoing medical 
treatment/procedure outside India.  
37) The Standard Exclusion under “Investigation & Evaluation (Code -Excl04) (a ) Expenses related to any admission 
primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only” are excluded even if the same requires confinement at a 
Hospital.  
 
 
C. Applicable to Part B -II (OUT -PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER)  
 
1. Out-patient Treatment  
a. During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all 
claims under out -patient except those arising out of Accidental Injury , however the waiting period would not be 
applied during subseque nt renewals.  
b. Out-patient Dental Treatment expenses will not be covered . 
 
2. Alternate/Complementary Treatment  
During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all claims 
under Alternate/Complementary T reatment  except those arising out of Accidental Injury , however the waiting 
period would not be applied during subsequent renewals.  
 
3. Physiotherapy Benefit  
a. During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 90 days waiting period would b e applicable for all 
claims under Physiotherapy Benefit except those arising out of Accidental Injury , however the waiting period 
would not be applied during subsequent renewals  
b. Physiotherapy does not include therapies such as Rolfing, massage, Pilates, Fa ngo and Milta.  
 
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 29 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
D. Applicable for Part B -III (DENTAL PLAN BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER)  
 During the first year of Global Health Care Policy with Us, 30 days waiting period would be applicable for all 
claims  under Dental Plan Benefits  except th ose arising out of Accidental Injury , however the waiting period 
would not be applied during subsequent renewals  
 Dental surgery does not cover surgical treatment that relates to dental implants.  
 Dental Prostheses , dental implants, orthodontics  
 
 
 
SECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS  - STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
 
1. Disclosure of Information  
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis description or non -disclosure of any material fact by the Policy holder.  
 
(Explanation - “Material facts” for the purpose of this Policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the 
Company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in  the context 
of underwriting the risk. ) 
 
2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability  
The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured for the Company to make any payment for 
claim(s) arising under the Policy.  
 
3. Claim Settlement. (pr ovision for Penal interest)  
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document.  
ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the Policyholder 
from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the 
bank rate.  
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall 
initiate an d complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days 
from the date of receipt of last necessary doc ument.  
iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the Policyholder at a 
rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of 
claim.  
 (Explanation: "Bank r ate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of 
the financial year in which claim has fallen due)  
 
4. Complete Discharge  
Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or as signee or to the 
Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the Policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim 
by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim.  
 
5. Multiple Policies  
i. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured during a period from the same or one or more insurers to 
indemnify treatment costs, the Insured shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of 
any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the insurer chosen by the Insured shall be obliged to settle the claim as 
long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy.  
ii. Insured having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this Policy for the amounts 
disallowed  under any other  policy / policies even if the Sum I nsured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall 
independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this Policy.  
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single policy , the Insured  shall have the right to 
choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.  
iv. Where an Insured  has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, the 
Insured  shall only be indemnified the treatment  costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen 
policy.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 30 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
6. Fraud  
If any claim made by the Insured, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made or 
used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devi ces are used by the Insured or anyone acting on his/her 
behalf to obtain any benefit under this Policy, all benefits under this Policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.  
 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are fo und fraudulent later shall be repaid 
by all recipient(s)/ Policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for 
such repayment to the insurer.  
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” means any of  the following acts committed by the Insured or 
by his agent or the Hospital/ Doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the Insured, with intent to deceive the Insurer 
or to induce the Insurer to issue an insurance Policy 
a. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured does not believe to be true;  
b. the active concealment of a fact by the Insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;  
c. any other act fitted to deceive; and  
d. any such actor omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent.  
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured 
/ beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate 
intention to  suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge 
of the insurer.  Onus of disproving Fraud is upon the Insured, if alive, or beneficiaries.  
 
7. Cancellation  
The Insured  may cancel this Policy by giving 1 5 days’ written notice and in such an event, the Company shall 
refund premium for the unexpired Policy Period as detailed below  
a. If full premium is received at Policy inception then refund will be computed as under : 
 
Period in Risk  Premium Refund  
Within 1 5 Days  As per Free Look  period Condition  
Exceeding 15   days but less than or equal to   3 months  65.00%  
Exceeding 3 months but less than or equal to 6 months  45.00%  
Exceeding 6 months but less than or equal to 9 months  20.00%  
Exceeding 9 months but less  than or equal to 12 months  0% 
 
b. If  premium is received on instalment basis, the premium will be refunded as per the below table : 
 
Period in Risk (From Latest instalment date)  % of 
Monthly 
Premium  % of Quarterly 
Premium  % of Half Yearly 
Premium  
Up to 15 days from 1st Instalment Date  As per Free Look Period Condition  
Exceeding 15 days but less than or equal to 3 
months  No Refund  30% 
Exceeding 3 months but less than or equal to 6 
months  0% 
 
Note:  
The first slab of Number of days “within 15 days ” in above table is applicable only in case of new business.  
In case of renewal policies, period is risk “Exceeding 15 days but less than 3 months” should be read as “within 3 
months”.  
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of p remium shall be made in respect of 
Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed by the 
insured person under the Policy.  
 
The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non -disclosure of material facts, 
fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days’ written notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation 
on grounds of misrepresentation, non -disclosure of material facts or fraud.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 31 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
8. Migration  
The Insured will have t he option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance products/plans offered by the 
Company  by applying for migration of the Policy at least 30 days before the Policy renewal date as per IRDAI 
guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently covere d and has been continuously covered without any lapses 
under any health insurance product/plan offered by the Company , the Insured will get the accrued continuity 
benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration.  
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/Circulars_List.aspx?mid=3.2.3  
 
9. Portability  
The Insured will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port the entire 
Policy along with all the  members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the 
Policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. If such person is presently covered and has been 
continuously covered without any lapses unde r any health insurance Policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, 
the proposed Insured will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on 
portability.  
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/Circulars_List.aspx?mid=3.2.3  
 
 
10. Renewal of Policy  
The Policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on misrepresentation by the insured person, grounds of fraud, 
misrepresentation by the insured person.  
i. The Company shall ende avor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under obligation to give 
any notice for renewal.  
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in the 
preceding Policy years.  
iii. Request for renewal al ong with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the 
Policy Period.  
iv. At the end of the Policy Period, the Policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 
days to maintain continuity of benefits without br eak in Policy. Coverage is not available during the grace 
period.  
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience  
 
11. Withdrawal of Policy  
i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insu red person about 
the same 90 days prior to expiry of the Policy.  
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company at 
the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulativ e bonus, waiver of waiting period 
as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the Policy has been maintained without a break.  
 
12. Moratorium Period  
After completion of eight continuous years under this Policy no look back to be applied. This period of eight years is 
called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured of the first Policy and 
subsequently completion of eight continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement of sums insured 
only on the enhanced limits. After the  expiry of Moratorium Period no claim under this Policy shall be contestable 
except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the Policy contract. The policies would however be 
subject to all limits, sub limits, co -payments, deductibles as per  the Policy contract.  
 
13. Premium Payment in Instalments (Wherever applicable)  
If the Insured has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e., Half Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly, as 
mentioned in the Policy Schedule, the following Conditions shall  apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary 
elsewhere in the Policy)  
i. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the Policy.  
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium till the date of 
receipt of premium by Company.  
iii. The Insured will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, “Specific Waiting Periods” 
in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace Period.  
iv. No interest will be  charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date.  
v. In case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the Policy will get cancelled.  
vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due an d payable.  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 32 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
vii. The Company  has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim amount due under 
the Policy.  
 
14. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy lncluding the Premium Rates:  
The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, ma y revise or modify the terms of the Policy including the premium 
rates. The Insured  shall be notified three months before the changes are effected.  
 
15. Free Look Period  
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at the 
time of porting/migrating the Policy.  
The Insured  shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the Policy document to review 
the terms and conditions of the Policy, and to return the same if not acce ptable.  
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to  
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the 
Insured and the stamp duty charges or  
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the Policy is exercised by the Insured, a 
deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or  
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate prem ium commensurate with 
the insurance coverage during such period.  
 
16. Nomination  
The Policyholder is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of 
claims under the Policy in the event of death of the Policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated 
to the Company  in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the Policy is made. ln 
the event of death of the Policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy 
Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal 
representatives of the Policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under 
the Policy.  
 
17. Grievance Redressal Procedure  
In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the Company  through  
 
Toll free:  1800 -225858 (free calls from BSNL/MTNL lines only)  
1800 -1025858 ( free calls from Bharti users – mobile /landline ) or 020 -30305858  
E-mail:   bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in  
Fax :   020-66026667  
Courier:  Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd  
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road  
  Yerawada, Pune 411006  
 
Insured Beneficiary may also approach  the grievance cell at any of the Company’s branches with the details of 
grievance  
 
If Insured Beneficiary is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, Insured 
Beneficiary may contact the grievance officer at ggro@baja jallianz.co.in  
For updated details of grievance officer, https://www.bajajallianz.com/about -Us/customer -service.html  
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Mana gement System - https://igms.irda.gov.in/  
 
You can further find detailed and Complaints and dispute resolution procedure for International Cover please refer 
condition 55 . “Additional Grievance Redressal Procedure” . 
 
SECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS - SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
 
18. Conditions Precedent  
a) The due observance and fulfilment of the terms and conditions of the Policy, by the Insured, shall be a 
condition precedent to any liability of the Company to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the Policy.  
b) The Insured shall notify the Company in writing of any material change in the risk in relation to the declaration 
made in the proposal form or medical examination report at each Renewal and the Compa ny may, adjust 
the scope of cover and / or premium, if necessary, accordingly.  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 33 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
c) Where this Policy requires You to do or not to do something, then the complete satisfaction of that 
requirement by You or someone claiming on Your behalf is a precondition to a ny obligation We have under 
this Policy. If You or someone claiming on Your behalf fails to completely satisfy that requirement, then We 
may refuse to consider Your claim.  
 
19. Records to be Maintained  
The Insured shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical records and shall allow the Company or 
its representatives to inspect such records. The Policyholder or Insured Person shall furnish such information as the 
Company may require for settlement of any claim under the Policy, within reasonabl e time limit and within the time 
limit specified in the Policy  
 
20. Automatic change in Coverage under the Policy  
 
The coverage for the Insured shall automatically terminate:  
1. In the case of his/ her (Insured) demise.  
 
However, the cover shall continue f or the remaining insured persons till the end of Policy Period. The other insured 
persons may also apply to renew the Policy. In case, the other insured person is minor, the Policy shall be renewed 
only through any one of his/her natural guardian or guardi an appointed by court. All relevant particulars in respect of 
such person (including his/her relationship with the insured person) must be submitted to the Company along with 
the application. Provided no claim has been made, and termination takes place on account of death of the Insured, 
pro-rata refund of premium of the deceased Insured for the balance period of the Policy will be effective.  
2. Upon exhaustion of Sum Insured and cumulative bonus, for the Policy year. However, the Policy is subject 
to rene wal on the due date as per the applicable terms and conditions.  
 
21. Territorial Jurisdiction  
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the interpretation of the terms, conditions, validity, construct, 
limitations and/or exclusions contained in the  Policy shall be determined by the Indian court and according to Indian 
law.  
 
22. Notice & Communication  
i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the Policy should be made in writing.  
ii. Such communication shall be sent to the a ddress of the Company or through any other electronic modes 
specified in the Policy Schedule.  
iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured at the address or through any other electronic mode mentioned 
in the Schedule.  
 
23. Insured  
Only those persons named as the Insured  in the Policy Schedule shall be covered under this Policy. Cover under 
this Policy shall be withdrawn from any Insured upon such Insured giving 14 days written notice to be received by 
Us. 
 
24. Communications  
Any communication meant for Us must be in writing and be delivered to Our address shown in the Schedule. Any 
communication meant for You will be sent by Us to Your  address shown in the Schedule.  
 
25. Paying a Claim  
i. You agree that We need only make payment when You or someone claiming on Your  behal f has provided Us 
with necessary documentation and information.  
ii. We will make payment to You or Your  Nominee. If there is no Nominee and You are incapacitated or deceased, 
We will pay Your  heir, executor or validly appointed legal representative and any pa yment We make in this way 
will be a complete and final discharge of Our liability to make payment.  
 
26. Basis of Claims Payment (For Domestic Cover  only)  
i. If You suffer a relapse within 45 days of the date when You last obtained medical treatment or consulted a  
Medical Practitioner  and for which a claim has been made, then such relapse shall be deemed to be part of the 
same claim.  
ii. The Day Care Procedure  listed are subject to the exclusions, terms and conditions of the Policy and will not be 
treated as independe nt coverage under the Policy.  
iii. We shall make payment in Indian Rupees only.  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 34 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
27. Basis of Claims Payment (For International Cover  only)  
Currency : Please specify the currency You wish to be paid in. On rare occasions, We may not be able to make a 
payment in that  currency due to international banking regulations. If this happens, We will identify a suitable 
alternative currency.  If We have to make a conversion from one currency to another, We will use the exchange rate 
that applied on the date the invoices were is sued, or on the date that We pay  Your  claim.  
Please note that We reserve the right to choose which currency exchange rate to apply.  
 
28. Cost Sharing  
a. You  shall bear 20% of Co-Payment  for each and every claim payable under Section C Part B III- Dental Plan 
Benefits (Optional cover) and Our liability, if any, shall only be in excess of that sum.  
b. If opted, a n aggregate Deductible as specified in the Policy Schedule will apply for expenses under Inpatient  
plan benefits outside India.  
 
29. Cumulat ive Bonus (For D omestic Cover  only):  
If You renew Your  Global Health Care  Policy with Us without any break and there has been no claim in the 
preceding year, We will increase the Limit of Indemnity by 20% of Domestic Cover’s base Sum Insured per annum, 
but: 
i. The maximum c umulative increase in the Limit of Indemnity will be limited to 100% of  Domestic Cover’s  base  
Sum Insured.  
ii. This clause does not alter the annual character of this insurance or Our right to decline to renew or to cancel the 
Policy, under the circumstances described in cancellation clause stated under the Policy  
iii. If a claim is made in any year where a cumulative increase has been applied, then the increased Limit of 
Indemnity in the Policy Period of the subsequent Global Health Care  Policy shall be reduced by  20%, save that 
the limit of indemnity applicable shall be preserved.  
 
30. Changing country of residence  
It is important to let Us know when You change Your  country of residence. This may affect  Your  cover, the 
availability of the services included in  Your  plan or  Your  premium, even if You are moving to an area within  Your  
Network, as  Your  existing plan may not be valid there. Cover in some countries is subject to local health insurance 
restrictions, particularly for residents of that country. It is Your  responsibility to ensure that  Your  health cover is 
legally appropriate. If You are not sure, please get independent legal advice, as We may no longer be able to cover 
You. The cover We provide is not a substitute for loca l compulsory health insurance.  
 
31. Withdrawal of Policy  
i. In the likelihood of this Policy/product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
Insured about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the Policy Period.  
ii. Insured will have the option to Migrate to similar Policy, if availa ble, with the Company at the time of 
renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of Waiting Period 
as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the Policy has been maintained without a break.  
iii. If the Company has no alternative or similar products then the Insured may opt for any Health 
Indemnity products available with the Company with all the accrued continuity benefits such as 
cumulative bonus, waiver of Waiting Period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the Policy has been 
maintai ned without a break.  
 
32. Endorsements (Changes in Policy)  
i. This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by anyone 
(including an insurance agent or broker) except the Company. Any change made by the Company 
shall be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped.  
ii. The Policyholder may be changed only at the time of renewal. The new Policyholder must be the 
legal heir/immediate family member of Policyholder. Such change would be subject to acceptance by  
the Company and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy shall be treated as having been 
renewed without break.  
iii. The Policyholder may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her demise or him/her 
moving out of India.  
 
33. Terms and con ditions of the Policy  
The terms and conditions contained herein and in the Policy Schedule shall be deemed to form part of the 
Policy and shall be read together as one document.  
  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 35 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 
34. Change of Sum Insured  
Sum Insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) onl y at the time of renewal or at any time, subject to 
underwriting by the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period shall start afresh only for the enhanced 
portion of the Sum Insured.  
 
35. Sum Insured Enhancement:  
i. The Insured can apply for enhancemen t of Sum Insured at the time of renewal. You can apply for enhancement 
of Sum Insured by submitting a fresh proposal form to the Company.  
ii. The acceptance of enhancement of Sum Insured would be at the discretion of the Company, based on the 
health condition  of the Insured(s) & claim history of the Policy.  
iii. All waiting periods as defined in the Policy shall apply for this enhanced Sum Insured limit from the effective 
date of enhancement of such Sum Insured considering such Policy Period as the first Policy wit h the Company.   
 
36. Inclusion of members under the Policy:  
Where an Insured is added to this Policy, either by way of Endorsement or at the time of renewal, the pre -existing 
disease clause, exclusions and waiting periods will be applicable considering such Po licy Year as the first year of 
Policy with the Company for the  New/ included  Insured.  
 
37. Territorial Limits & Governing Law (for Domestic Cover only):  
i. We cover medical expenses for treatment availed within India only. Our liability to make any payment shall b e to 
make payment within India and in Indian Rupees only.  
ii. The Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or effective 
unless approved in writing by Us, which approval shall be evidenced by an Endorsement o n the Schedule.  
iii. The construction, interpretation and meaning of the provisions of this Policy shall be determined in accordance 
with Indian law. The section headings of this Policy are included for descriptive purposes only and do not form 
part of this Pol icy for the purpose of its construction or interpretation.  
iv. Subject to Arbitration clause, the competent court in India shall have exclusive jurisdiction under this Policy.  
 
38. Territorial Limits & Governing Law (for International Cover only):  
i. We cover medical  expenses for treatment availed World -wide outside of India (including or excluding USA  as 
specified in  the Policy Schedule).  
ii. You may specify the currency You wish to be paid in. On rare occasions, We may not be able to make a 
payment in that currency due to international banking regulations. If this happens, We will identify a suitable 
alternative currency.  If We have to make a conversion from one currency to another, We will use the exchange 
rate that applied on the date the invoices were issued, or on th e date that We pay  Your  claim.  
iii. Please note that We reserve the right to choose which currency exchange rate to apply.  
iv. The Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or effective 
unless approved in writin g by Us, which approval shall be evidenced by an Endorsement on the Schedule.  
v. Your Policy is exclusively governed by the Indian Law and Indian Courts jurisdiction . 
vi. The construction, interpretation and meaning of the provisions of this Policy shall be deter mined in accordance 
with Indian law. The section headings of this Policy are included for descriptive purposes only and do not form 
part of this Policy for the purpose of its construction or interpretation  
 
39. Economic sanctions (for International Cover  only):  
Cover is not provided if any element of the cover ,benefit, activity, business or underlying business violates any 
applicable sanction law or regulations of the United Nations, the European Union or any other applicable economic 
or trade sanction law o r regulations.  
 
40. Circumstances outside Our control (force majeure):  
We will always do Our best for You, but We are not liable for delays or failures in Our obligations to You caused by 
things which are outside of Our reasonable control. Examples are extrem ely severe weather, floods, landslides, 
earthquakes, storms, lightning, fire, subsidence, epidemics, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of military hostilities 
(whether or not war is declared), riots, explosions, strikes or other labour unrest, civil disturbance s, sabotage and 
expropriation by governmental authorities.  
 
41. The wordings “The Policyholder may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her demise or him/her 
moving out of India.” In the Standard Terms and Conditions shall not be applicable to this Policy as this Policy also 
covers the international Health coverage . 
 
 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 36 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
42. Additional conditions as to Migration and or Portability:  
 Migration and or Portability will be allowed only if the Insured is having the existing health policy which 
covers both the Domestic and International health cover.  
 If the Insured has an existing Domestic Health Indemnity Policy and wants to opt for Global Health Care 
Policy, then the Global Health Care Policy will be provided but accrued continuity benefits such as 
cumulat ive bonus, waiver of Waiting Period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the Policy has been 
maintained without a break will be available only for Domestic Health Indemnity Covers.  
 
43. Discounts  
i. Employee Discount : 20% discount on published premium rates to emplo yees of Bajaj Allianz & its group 
companies, this discount is applicable only if the Policy is booked in direct code .  
ii. Online/Direct Business Discount: Discount of 5% will be offered in this product for policies underwritten  through 
direct/online channel.  
Note: this discount is not applicable for Employees who get employee discount . 
iii. Family Discount: 5% family discount shall be offered if 2 or more eligible Family Members are covered under a 
single Policy.  
iv. Voluntary Deductible: The customer can opt for aggre gate deductible on International Inpatient Benefits and avail 
discount as below.  
 
 
 
SECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES - STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CL AUSES  
 
44. Claims Procedure for Domestic Cover  
All Claims will be settled by In house claims settlement team of the Company and no TPA is engaged. However the 
Company reserves to engage TPA at any time, at the sole discretion of the Company.  
If You meet with a ny Accidental Bodily Injury or suffer an Illness that may result in a claim, then as a Cashless 
Facility  to Our liability, You must comply with the following:  
A. Cashless Claims Procedure:   
Cashless treatment is only available at Network Hospitals. In order t o avail of cashless treatment, the following 
procedure must be followed by You:  
i. For planned treatment or Hospitalization, prior to taking treatment and/or incurring Medical Expenses at a 
Network Hospital, You or Your  representative must intimate Us 48 hou rs before the planned Hospitalization and 
request pre -authorisation by way of the written form.  
ii. After considering Your request and after obtaining any further information or documentation We have sought, 
We may, if satisfied, send You or the Network Hospit al, an authorisation letter. The authorisation letter, the ID 
card issued to You along with this Policy and any other information or documentation that We have specified 
must be produced to the Network  Hospital identified in the pre -authorization letter at  the time of Your admission 
to the same.  
iii. If the procedure above is followed, You will not be required to directly pay for the bill amount in the Network 
Hospital that We are liable under Section A I-Inpatient  Hospitalization Treatment above and the original  bills and 
evidence of treatment in respect of the same shall be left with the Network Hospital. Pre -authorisation does not 
guarantee that all costs and expenses will be covered. We reserve the right to review each claim for Medical 
Expenses and accordingl y coverage will be determined according to the terms and conditions of this Policy.  
iv. In case any treatment or procedure is to be taken on an Emergency basis, You or Your representative must 
intimate Us in writing immediately within 24 hours of Hospitalizat ion. 
 
B. Reimbursement Claims Procedure:  
If Pre -authorisation as per Cashless Claims Procedure above is denied by Us or if treatment is taken in a Hospital 
other than a Network Hospital or if You do not wish to avail Cashless Facility , then:  
i. You or someone c laiming on Your  behalf must inform Us in writing immediately within 48 hours of Hospitalization  
in case of Emergency Hospitalization  and 48 hours prior to Hospitalization  in case of planned Hospitalization  
ii. You must immediately consult a Medical Practitione r and follow the advice and treatment that he recommends.  
iii. You must take reasonable steps or measures to minimize the quantum of any claim that may be made under this 
Policy.  
iv. You must have Yourself examined by Our medical advisors if We ask for this, and as  often as We consider this to 
be necessary at Our cost.  
Deductible Imperial Plan Imperial Plus Plan
USD 500 5% 4%
USD 1000 9% 6%
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 37 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
v. You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly and in any event within 30 days of  discharge from a 
Hospital give Us the documentation as listed out in greater detail below and other information  We ask for to 
investigate the claim or Our obligation to make payment for it.  
vi. In the event of the death of the Insured, someone claiming on his behalf must inform Us in writing immediately 
and send Us a copy of the post mortem report (if any) within 30 da ys* 
vii. If the original documents are submitted with the co -insurer, the Xerox copies attested by the co -insurer should be 
submitted  
 
*Note: In case You are claiming for the same event under an indemnity based Policy of another insurer and are 
required to sub mit the original documents related to Your treatment with that particular insurer, then You may 
provide Us with the attested Xerox copies of such documents along with a declaration from the particular insurer 
specifying the availability of the original cop ies of the specified treatment documents with it.  
**Note: Waiver of conditions (i) and (vi) may be considered in extreme cases of hardship where it is proved to Our 
satisfaction that under the circumstances in which You were placed, it was not possible fo r You or any other person 
to give notice or file claim within the prescribed time limit.  
 
List of Claim documents:  
 Claim form with NEFT details & cancelled cheque duly signed by Insured  
 Original/Attested copies of Discharge Summary / Discharge Certificate  / Death Summary with Surgical & 
anesthetics notes  
 Attested copies of Indoor case papers, if available   
 Original/Attested copies Final Hospital Bill with break up of surgical charges, surgeon’s fees, OT charges etc  
 Original Paid Receipt against the final  Hospital Bill.  
 Original bills towards Investigations done / Laboratory Bills.  
 Original/Attested copies of Investigation Reports against Investigations done.  
 Original bills and receipts paid for the transportation from Registered Ambulance Service Provi der. Treating 
Medical Practitioner  certificate to transfer the Injured person to a higher medical centre for further treatment (if 
Applicable).  
 Cashless settlement letter or other Company settlement letter  
 First consultation letter for the current ailment . 
 In case of implant surgery, invoice & sticker.  
 
Please send the documents on below address   
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd  
2nd Floor, Bajaj Finserv Building,  
Behind Weikfield IT park,  
Off Nagar Road, Viman Nagar  
Pune 411014| Toll free: 1800 -103-2529, 1800 -22-5858  
 
45. Claims Procedure for International Cover - Reimbursement Claims and Pre -authorization Process for 
International Cover  
A. Medical claims  
Before submitting a claim to Us, please pay attention to the following points:  
 Claiming deadline:  You must submit all claims no later than 30 days  after the date of discharge from the 
Hospital .  
 
 Claim Submission:  You must submit a separate claim for each person claiming and for each medical 
condition being claimed for.  
 
 Supporting documents : When You  send Us copies of supporting documents (e.g. medical receipts), please 
make sure You keep the originals. We have the right to request original supporting documents/receipts for 
auditing purposes up to 12 months after settling  Your claim. We may also requ est proof of payment by You 
(e.g. a bank or credit card statement) for medical bills You have paid. We advise that You keep copies of all 
correspondence with Us as We cannot be held responsible for correspondence that fails to reach Us for any 
reason outsi de of Our control.  
 
 Deductibles : If the amount You are claiming is less than the Deductible figure in  Your  plan, You can  Send Us 
each claim every time You receive treatment. Once You reach the Deductible amount, We'll start reimbursing 
You. 
Attach all sup porting receipts and/or invoices with  Your claim.  
 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 38 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
 Currency : Please specify the currency You wish to be paid in. On rare occasions, We may not be able to 
make a payment in that currency due to international banking regulations. If this happens, We will id entify a 
suitable alternative currency.  If We have to make a conversion from one currency to another, We will use the 
exchange rate that applied on the date the invoices were issued, or on the date that We pay Your claim.  
Please note that We reserve the r ight to choose which currency exchange rate to apply.  
 Reimbursement : We will only reimburse (within the limit of  Your Policy)  eligible costs after considering any 
Treatment Guarantee requirements, Deductibles or co -payments outlined in the Table of Benefi ts. 
Reasonable and customary cost : We will only reimburse charges that are reasonable and customary in 
accordance with standard and generally accepted medical procedures. If We consider a claim to be 
inappropriate, We reserve the right to decline Your clai m or reduce the amount We pay.  
 
 Deposits: If You have to pay a deposit in advance of any medical treatment, We will reimburse this cost only 
after treatment has taken place.  This is only applicable where deposit amount was deducted from the final bill 
issued by the medical provider to us.  
 
 Providing information : You and Your  dependants agree to help Us get all the information We need to process 
a claim. We have the right to access all medical records and to have direct discussions with the medical 
provider  or the treating Doctor. We may, at Our own expense, request a medical examination by Our Doctors if 
We think it's necessary. All information will be treated confidentially. We reserve the right to withhold benefits if 
You or Your  dependants do not support  Us in getting the information We need.  
 
B. Seeking treatment?  
 
We understand that seeking treatment can be stressful. Follow the steps below so We can look after the details – 
while You concentrate on getting better.  
Check  Your level of cover  
First, check  that Your plan covers the treatment You are seeking. Your Table of Benefits will confirm what is 
covered. However, You can always call Our Helpline if You have any queries.  
24/7 International Helpline number +353 1 630 1301  
 
Some treatments require Our pr e-approval  
Certain b enefits under this policy for International Cover would require You to seek pre -approval at least 72 hours 
prior to admission or availing the benefit  in case of planned treatments . The pre -approval process helps Us assess 
each case, org anize everything with the Hospital before Your arrival and make direct payment of Your Hospital bill 
easier, where possible. If You make a claim without obtaining Our pre -approval the following will apply:    
i. If the treatment received is subsequently proven  to be medically unnecessary, We reserve the right to 
decline Your claim in accordance with the policy terms and conditions  
ii. If the treatment is subsequently proven to be medically necessary, we will process the claim basis on 
reasonable and customary expen ses up to 80% of the coverage, subject to the policy terms and conditions.  
List of coverage which require prior approval are as below.  
i. In-patient Hospitalization Treatment (Section C, Part B,I -1) 
ii. Day Care Procedures (Section C, Part B,I -5) 
iii. Living Donor Med ical Costs (Section C, Part B,I -6) 
iv. Mental Illness Treatment  (Section C, Part B,I -9) 
v. Accommodation costs for one parent staying in Hospital with an Insured child under 18 years of age 
(Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only) (Section C, Part B,I -11) 
vi. Palliati ve care (Applicable to Imperial  Plus Plan only) (Section C, Part B,I -16) 
Claiming for Your out -patient, dental and other expenses  
If Your treatment does not require Our pre -approval, You can simply pay the bill and claim the expenses from Us. 
In this case , follow these steps:  
1. Receive Your medical treatment and pay the medical provider.  
2. Get an invoice from Your medical provider. (This should state Your name, treatment date(s), the 
diagnosis/medical condition that You received treatment for, the date o f onset of symptoms, the nature of the 
treatment and the fees charged.)  
3. Claim back Your eligible costs via Our MyHealth app or online portal ( www.allianzcare.com/en/myhealth ). 
Simply enter a few key  details, add Your invoice(s) and press ‘submit’.  
 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 39 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
Getting Inpatient treatment  
 
Download a Treatment Guarantee Form from Our website: www.allianzcare.com/members  (Link provided is subject 
to change. Final  version to be communicated to members upon Policy issuance)  
Complete the form and send it to Us at least five working days  before treatment. You can send it by email, fax or 
post to the address shown on the form.  
We contact the Hospital to organise paymen t of Your bill directly, where possible.  
We can also take Treatment Guarantee Form details over the phone if treatment is taking place within 72 hours. 
Please note that We may decline Your claim if pre -approval is not obtained.  
 
If it's an Emergency:  
Get t he Emergency treatment You need and call Us if You need any advice or support.  
If You are Hospitalised, either You, Your Doctor, one of Your dependants or a colleague needs to call Our Helpline 
(within 48 hours of the Emergency) to inform Us of the Hospita lisation. We can take Treatment Guarantee Form 
details over the phone when You call Us.  
24/7 International Helpline number +353 1 630 1301  
 
46. Conditions Precedent  
Where this Policy requires You to do or not to do something, then the complete satisfaction of that requirement by 
You or someone claiming on Your  behalf is a precondition to any obligation We have under this Policy. If You or 
someone claiming on Your  behalf fails to completely satisfy that requirement, then We may refuse to consider Your  
claim.  
 
47. Insured  
Only the Insured mentioned in the Policy Schedule shall be covered under the Policy . Cover under the Policy  
shall be withdrawn from Insured upon such Insured giving 15 days written notice to be received by Us.  
48. Additional Conditions for Fraud : in case of Fraud, the premium paid  shall be forfeited  
 
49. Communications  
Any communication meant for Us must be in writing and be delivered to Our address shown in the Policy Schedule. 
Any communication meant for You will be sent by Us to Your  address shown in th e Policy Schedule.  
 
50. Claim Assistance -  
In event of a claim during the Insured’s overseas trip, He/She  shall contact on Our toll-free numbers or email ids 
available on Policy Wording . We provide assistance through Our In house Team or may seek assistance fr om 
overseas assistance partners.  
 
51. Nationality:  
Indian nationals residing in India would be considered for this Policy.  
 
52. Additional conditions for Arbitration:  
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under the Policy, (liabilit y being otherwise 
admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions, be referred to the decision of a sole 
arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties here to or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator 
within thirty days o f any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators, 
comprising two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third 
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance 
with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, as amended by Arbitration and Conciliation 
(Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016).  
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no diff erence or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration as herein 
before provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of the Policy.  
iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or 
suit upon the Policy that award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first obtained.  
iv. It is also hereby further expressly agreed and declared that if the Insurer shall disclaim/repudiate the claim 
and the liability to the Insured/Insured’s Legal Heirs for any claim under the Policy issued to the Insured, and 
such claim shall not, within 12 calendar months from the date of such disclaimer/repudiation have been made 
the subject matter of a suit or proceed ing before a competent Court of law in India or any other competent 
statutory forum/tribunal in India, then all benefits/indemnities under the Policy shall be forfeited and the rights 
of Insured shall stand extinguished and the liability of the Insurer sha ll also stand discharged.  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 40 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
v. The seat and venue of the Arbitration shall be Pune. This condition remains valid, should the Policy become 
void.  
vi. In the event that the Arbitration provisions shall be held to be invalid then all such disputes or differences 
shall be referred to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Indian Courts subject to other Terms and Conditions of the 
Policy.  
 
53. Additional Grievance Redressal Procedure  
Welcome to Bajaj Allianz and Thank You for choosing Us as Your  Insurer.  
The Company  has alway s been known as a forward -looking customer centric organization. It takes immense pride 
in its approach of “Caringly Yours”. To provide You with top -notch service on all fronts, the Company  has provided 
with multiple platforms via which You can always reac h out to Us at below mentioned touch points  
1. Our toll -free number 1 -800-209- 5858 or  020-30305858, say Say “Hi” on WhatsApp on +91 7507245858  
2. Branches for resolution of Your  grievances / complaints , the Branch details can be found on Our website  
www.bajajallianz.com/branch -locator.html  
3. Register Your  grievances / complaints on Our website  
 www.bajajallianz.com/about -Us/customer -service.html  
4. E-mail  
a) Level 1 Write to  bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in  and for senior citizens to seniorcitizen@bajajallianz.co.in  
b) Level 2 In cas e You are not satisfied with the response given to You at Level 1 You may write to Our 
Grievance Redressal Officer at ggro@bajajallianz.co.in   
c) Level 3 If in case, Your  grievance is still not resolved, and You wish to talk to Our care specialist, please give 
a missed call on +91 80809 45060 OR SMS To 575758 and Our care specialist will call You back  
5. If You are still not satisfied with the decision of the Insurance Company, You may approach the Insurance 
Ombudsm an, established by the Central Government for redressal of grievance.  Detailed process along with 
list of Ombudsman offices are available at www.cioins.co.in/ombudsman.html  
 
Grievance Redressal Cell f or Senior Citizens  
Senior Citizen Cell for Insured Beneficiary who are Senior Citizens  
‘Good things come with time’ and so for Our customers who are above 60 years of age We have created 
special cell to address any health insurance related query.  Our sen ior citizen customers can reach Us through 
the below dedicated channels to enable Us to service them promptly  
Health toll free number: 1800 -103-2529  
Exclusive Email address: seniorcitizen@bajajallianz .co.in  
 
Complaints and dispute resolution procedure for International Cover  
Our Helpline is always the first number to call if You have any comments or complaints. If We can’t resolve the 
problem on the phone, please email or write to Us:  
[For designer Phone icon]  +353 1 630 1301  
[For designer Email icon:]  client.services@allianzworldwidecare.com   
[For designer Address Icon:]  Customer Advocacy Team, Allianz Care, 15 Joyce Way, Park West B usiness 
Campus, Nangor Road, Dublin 12, Ireland.  
We will handle Your  complaint according to Our internal complaint management procedure. For details see:  
[For designer web icon:] www. allianzcare.com/complaints -procedure   
You can also contact Our Helpline to obtain a copy of this procedure.  
 
The contact details of the ombudsman offices are mentioned below  
Office Details  Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District)  
AHMEDABAD  -  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,  
Tilak Marg, Relief Road,  
AHMEDABAD – 380 001.  
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06  
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in    Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 41 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
Office Details  Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District)  
BENGALURU  - 
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Soudha  Building,PID No. 57 -27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,  
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.  
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049  
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in   Karnataka.  
BHOPA L - 
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,  
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,  
Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003.  
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202  
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in  Madhya Pradesh  
Chattisgarh.  
BHUBANESHWAR – 
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
62, Forest park,  
Bhubaneswar – 751 009.  
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455  
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in   Orissa.  
CHANDIGARH -  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,  
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017.  
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468  
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in   Punjab, Haryana (excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and 
Bahadurgarh), Himachal Pradesh, Union Territories of Jammu & 
Kashmir,Ladakh & Chandigarh.  
CHENNAI -  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet,  
CHENNAI – 600 018.  
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284  
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co .in  Tamil Nadu, PuducherryTown and Karaikal (which are part of Puducherry)  
DELHI –  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,  
Asaf Ali Road,  
New Delhi – 110 002.  
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504  
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in   Delhi & following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat & 
Bahadurgarh.  
GUWAHATI -  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Fl oor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,  
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).  Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagal and and 
Tripura.  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 42 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
Office Details  Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District)  
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205  
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in   
HYDERABAD -  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",  
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,  
A. C. Guards, Lakdi -Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.  
Tel.: 040 - 23312122  
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in   Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Yanam and part of Union Territory of 
Puducherry.  
JAIPUR - 
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nidhi  – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,  
Bhawani Singh Marg,  
Jaipur - 302 005.  
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363  
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in   Rajasthan.  
ERNAKULAM –  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,  
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,  
Ernakulam - 682 015.  
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338  
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in   Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe -a part of Union Ter ritory of Puducherry.  
KOLKATA –  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,  
4, C.R. Avenue,  
KOLKATA - 700 072.  
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340  
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in   West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar Islands.  
LUCKNOW – 
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase -II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,  
Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 /  2231331  
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in   Districts of Uttar Pradesh : Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varan asi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, 
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria,  
Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar..  
MUMBAI - 
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),  
Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 69038821/23/24/25/26/27/28/28/29/30/31  
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in   Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane).  
NOIDA -  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Bhagwan Sahai Palace  State of Uttarakhand and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Agra, 
Aligar h, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kannauj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, 
Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautam Buddh nagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 43 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
Office Details  Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory,District)  
4th Floor, Main Road, Naya  Bans, Sector 15,  
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P -201301.  
Tel.: 0120 -2514252 / 2514253  
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in   Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, S ambhal, Amroha, 
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.  
PATNA –  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2nd Floor, Lalit Bhawan,  
Bailey Road,  
Patna 800 001.  
Tel.: 0612 -2547068  
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in   Bihar,  
Jharkhand.  
PUNE -  
Insurance Ombudsman  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road,  
Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030.  
Tel.: 020 -41312555  
Email: bimalokpal. pune@cioins.co.in   Maharashtra, Areas of Navi Mumbai and Thane (excluding Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region).  
Note:  Address and contact number o f Governing Body of Insurance Council  
Executive Council Of Insurers, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 022 - 69038801/03/04/05/06/07/08/09  
Email: inscoun@cioins.co.i n 
 
Annexure I - List of Day Care Procedures  
   ENT    General Surgery  
1  Stapedotomy  204  Infected Keloid Excision  
2  Myringoplasty(Type I Tympanoplasty)  205  Incision of a pilonidal sinus / abscess  
3  Revision stapedectomy  206  Axillary lymphadenectomy  
4  Labyrinthectomy for severe Vertigo  207   Wound debridement and Cover  
5  Stapedectomy under GA  208   Abscess -Decompression  
6  Ossiculoplasty  209  Cervical lymphadenectomy  
7  Myringotomy with Grommet Insertion  210  infected sebaceous cyst  
8  Tympano plasty (Type III)  211  Inguinal lymphadenectomy  
9  Stapedectomy under LA  212   Incision and drainage of Abscess  
10  Revision of the fenestration of the inner ear.  213  Suturing of lacerations  
11  Tympanoplasty (Type IV)  214  Scalp Suturing  
12  Endolymp hatic Sac Surgery for Meniere's 
Disease  215  Infected lipoma excision  
13  Turbinectomy  216  Maximal anal dilatation  
14  Removal of Tympanic Drain under LA  217  Piles  
15  Endoscopic Stapedectomy     A)Injection Sclerotherapy  
16  Fenestration of the inner  ear    B)Piles banding  
17  Incision and drainage of perichondritis  218  Liver Abscess - catheter drainage  
18  Septoplasty  219  Fissure in Ano - fissurectomy  
19  Vestibular Nerve section  220  Fibroadenoma breast excision  
20  Thyroplasty Type I  221  Oesop hagealvaricesSclerotherapy  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 44 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
21  Pseudocyst of the Pinna - Excision  222  ERCP - pancreatic duct stone removal  
22  Incision and drainage - Haematoma Auricle  223   Perianal abscess I&D  
23  Tympanoplasty (Type II)  224  Perianal hematoma Evacuation  
24  Kerat osis removal under GA  225  Fissure in anosphincterotomy  
25  Reduction of fracture of Nasal Bone  226  UGI scopy and Polypectomyoesophagus  
26  Excision and destruction of lingual tonsils  227  Breast abscess I& D  
27  Conchoplasty  228  Feeding Gastrostomy  
28   Thyroplasty Type II  229  Oesophagoscopy and biopsy of growth oesophagus  
29  Tracheostomy  230  UGI scopy and injection of adrenaline, sclerosants   - 
bleeding ulcers  
30  Excision of Angioma Septum  231  ERCP - Bile duct stone removal  
31  Turbinoplast y 232  Ileostomy closure  
32  Incision & Drainage of Retro Pharyngeal 
Abscess  233  Colonoscopy  
33  UvuloPalatoPharyngoPlasty  234  Polypectomy colon  
34  Palatoplasty  235  Splenic abscesses  Laparoscopic Drainage  
35  Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy  236  UGI SCOPY and Polypectomy stomach  
36  Adenoidectomy with Grommet insertion  237   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for FB removal  
37  Adenoidectomy without  Grommet insertion  238  Feeding Jejunostomy  
38  Vocal Cord lateralisation Procedure  239   Colostomy  
39  Incision & Drainage of Para Pharyngeal 
Abscess  240  Ileostomy  
40  Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal 
abscess  241  colostomy closure  
41  Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy  242  Submandibular salivary duct stone removal  
42  Tracheoplasty Ophtha lmology  243  Pneumatic reduction of intussusception  
43  Incision of tear glands  244  Varicose veins legs - Injection sclerotherapy  
44  Other operation on the tear ducts  245   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for Plummer vinson 
syndrome  
45  Incision of diseased eyel ids 246   Pancreatic Pseudocysts Endoscopic  Drainage  
46  Excision and destruction of the diseased tissue 
of the eyelid  247   ZADEK's Nail bed excision  
47  Removal of foreign body from the lens of the 
eye. 248   Subcutaneous mastectomy  
48  Corrective s urgery of the entropion and 
ectropion  249  Excision of Ranula under GA  
49  Operations for pterygium  250   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for dilation of benign 
Strictures  
50  Corrective surgery of blepharoptosis  251   Eversion of Sac  
51  Removal of foreign body f rom conjunctiva     a) Unilateral  
52  Biopsy of tear gland     b)Bilateral  
53  Removal of Foreign body from cornea  252   Lord's plication  
54  Incision of the cornea  253   Jaboulay's Procedure  
55  Other operations on the cornea  254   Scrotoplasty  
56  Ope ration on the canthus and epicanthus  255   Surgical treatment of varicocele  
57  Removal of foreign body from the orbit and the 
eye ball.  256   Epididymectomy  
58  Surgery for cataract  257  Circumcision for Trauma  
59  Treatment of retinal lesion  258   Me atoplasty  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 45 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
60  Removal of foreign body from the posterior 
chamber of the eye  259  Intersphincteric abscess incision and drainage  
Oncology  260  Psoas Abscess Incision and Drainage  
61  IV Push Chemotherapy  261  Thyroid abscess Incision and Drainage  
62  HB I-Hemibody Radiotherapy  262   TIPS procedure for  portal hypertension  
63  Infusional Targeted therapy  263  Esophageal  Growth stent  
64  SRT -Stereotactic Arc Therapy  264  PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst liver  
65  SC administration of  Growth Factors  265  Tru cut liver biopsy  
66  Continuous Infusional Chemotherapy  266   Photodynamic therapy or esophageal tumour and  
Lung tumour  
67  Infusional Chemotherapy  267   Excision of Cervical RIB  
68  CCRT -Concurrent Chemo + RT  268   laparoscopic reduction of intu ssusception  
69  2D Radiotherapy  269   Microdochectomy breast  
70  3D Conformal Radiotherapy  270  Surgery for fracture Penis  
71  IGRT - Image Guided Radiotherapy  271   Sentinel node biopsy  
72  IMRT - Step & Shoot  272  Parastomal hernia  
73  Infusional Bis phosphonates  273  Revision colostomy  
74  IMRT - DMLC  274  Prolapsed colostomy - Correction  
75  Rotational Arc Therapy  275  Testicular biopsy  
76   Tele gamma therapy  276  laparoscopic cardiomyotomy( Hellers)  
77  FSRT -Fractionated SRT  277  Sentinel node b iopsy malignant melanoma  
78  VMAT -Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy  278   laparoscopic pyloromyotomy( Ramstedt)  
79  SBRT -Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy  Orthopedics  
80  Helical Tomotherapy  279  Arthroscopic Repair of ACL tear knee  
81  SRS -Stereotactic Ra diosurgery  280  Closed reduction of minor Fractures  
82  X -Knife SRS  281  Arthroscopic repair of PCL tear knee  
83  Gammaknife SRS  282  Tendon shortening  
84  TBI - Total Body Radiotherapy  283  Arthroscopic  Meniscectomy - Knee  
85  intraluminal Brachythera py 284  Treatment of clavicle dislocation  
86   Electron Therapy  285  Arthroscopic meniscus repair  
87  TSET -Total Electron Skin Therapy  286  Haemarthrosis knee - lavage  
88  Extracorporeal Irradiation of  Blood Products  287  Abscess  knee joint drainage  
89  Telecobalt Therapy  288  Carpal tunnel release  
90  Telecesium Therapy  289  Closed reduction of minor dislocation  
91   External mould Brachytherapy  290  Repair of knee cap tendon  
92   Interstitial Brachytherapy  291  ORIF with K wire fixation - small bo nes 
93  Intracavity Brachytherapy  292  Release of midfoot joint  
94  3D Brachytherapy  293  ORIF with plating - Small long bones  
95  Implant Brachytherapy  294  Implant removal minor  
96  Intravesical Brachytherapy  295  K wire removal  
97  Adjuvant Radiothe rapy 296  POP application  
98   Afterloading Catheter Brachytherapy  297  Closed reduction and external fixation  
99  Conditioning Radiothearpy for BMT  298  Arthrotomy Hip joint  
100  Extracorporeal Irradiation to the Homologous 
Bone grafts  299  Syme's amp utation  
101  Radical chemotherapy  300  Arthroplasty  
102  Neoadjuvant radiotherapy  301  Partial removal of rib  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 46 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
103  LDR Brachytherapy  302  Treatment of sesamoid bone fracture  
104  Palliative Radiotherapy  303  Shoulder arthroscopy / surgery  
105  Radical  Radiotherapy  304  Elbow arthroscopy  
106  Palliative chemotherapy  305  Amputation of metacarpal bone  
107  Template Brachytherapy  306  Release of thumb contracture  
108  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy  307  Incision of foot fascia  
109  Adjuvant chemotherapy  308  calcaneum spur hydrocort injection  
110  Induction chemotherapy  309  Ganglion wrist hyalase injection  
111  Consolidation chemotherapy  310  Partial removal of metatarsal  
112  Maintenance chemotherapy  311  Repair / graft of foot tendon  
113  HDR Brachyth erapy  312  Revision/Removal of Knee cap  
Plastic Surgery  313  Amputation follow -up surgery  
114  Construction skin pedicle flap  314  Exploration of ankle joint  
115  Gluteal pressure ulcer -Excision  315  Remove/graft leg bone lesion  
116  Muscle -skin graft , leg 316  Repair/graft achilles tendon  
117  Removal of bone for graft  317  Remove of tissue expander  
118  Muscle -skin graft duct fistula  318  Biopsy elbow joint lining  
119  Removal cartilage graft  319  Removal of wrist prosthesis  
120  Myocutaneous fla p 320  Biopsy finger joint lining  
121  Fibro myocutaneous flap  321  Tendon lengthening  
122  Breast reconstruction surgery after 
mastectomy  322  Treatment of shoulder dislocation  
123  Sling operation  for facial palsy  323  Lengthening of hand tendon  
124   Split Skin Grafting under RA  324  Removal of elbow bursa  
125  Wolfe skin graft  325  Fixation of knee joint  
126  Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth under 
GA 326  Treatment of foot dislocation  
Urology  327  Surgery of bunion  
127  AV fistula - wrist 328  intra articular steroid injection  
128  URSL with stenting  329  Tendon transfer procedure  
129  URSL with lithotripsy  330  Removal of knee cap bursa  
130   CystoscopicLitholapaxy  331  Treatment of fracture of ulna  
131   ESWL  332  Treatment of sc apula fracture  
132  Haemodialysis  333   Removal of  tumor of arm/ elbow under RA/GA  
133  Bladder Neck Incision  334  Repair of ruptured tendon  
134   Cystoscopy & Biopsy  335  Decompress forearm space  
135  Cystoscopy and removal of polyp  336  Revision of neck muscle ( Torticollis release )  
136  Suprapubiccystostomy  337  Lengthening of thigh tendons  
137  percutaneous nephrostomy  338  Treatment fracture of radius & ulna  
139  Cystoscopy and "SLING" procedure.  339  Repair of knee joint Paediatric surgery  
140  TUNA - prostate  340   Excision Juvenile  polyps rectum  
141   Excision of urethral diverticulum  341   Vaginoplasty  
142   Removal of urethral Stone  342   Dilatation of accidental caustic stricture 
oesophageal  
143   Excision of urethral prolapse  343   PresacralTeratomas Excision  
144   Mega -ureter reconstruction  344   Removal of vesical stone  
145  Kidney renoscopy  and biopsy  345   Excision Sigmoid Polyp  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 47 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
146  Ureter endoscopy and treatment  346   SternomastoidTenotomy  
147  Vesico ureteric reflux corr ection  347   Infantile Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis 
pyloromyotomy  
148  Surgery for pelvi ureteric junction obstruction  348   Excision of soft tissue rhabdomyosarcoma  
149  Anderson hynes operation  349   Mediastinal lymph node biopsy  
150  Kidney endoscop y and biopsy  350   High Orchidectomy for testis tumours  
151  Paraphimosis surgery  351  Excision of cervical teratoma  
152  Injury  prepuce - circumcision  352   Rectal -Myomectomy  
153  Frenular tear repair  353  Rectal prolapse  (Delorme's procedure)  
154  Me atotomy for meatal stenosis  354   Orchidopexy for undescended testis  
155  surgery for fournier's gangrene scrotum  355   Detorsion of torsion Testis  
156  surgery filarial scrotum  356  lap.Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism  
157  surgery for watering can perineum  357  EUA + biopsy multiple fistula in ano  
158  Repair of penile torsion  358  Cystic hygroma - Injection treatment  
159  Drainage of prostate abscess  359   Excision of fistula -in-ano 
160  Orchiectomy  Gynaecology  
161  Cystoscopy and removal o f FB 360  Hysteroscopic removal of myoma  
 Neurology  361  D&C  
162  Facial nerve physiotherapy  362  Hysteroscopic resection of septum  
163  Nerve biopsy  363  thermal Cauterisation of Cervix  
164  Muscle biopsy  364  MIRENA insertion  
165  Epidural steroid injection  365  Hysteroscopicadhesiolysis  
166  Glycerol rhizotomy  366  LEEP  
167  Spinal cord stimulation  367  Cryocauterisation of Cervix  
168  Motor cortex stimulation  368  Polypectomy Endometrium  
169  Stereotactic Radiosurgery  369  Hysteroscopic resec tion of fibroid   
170  Percutaneous Cordotomy  370  LLETZ  
171  Intrathecal Baclofen therapy  371  Conization  
172  Entrapment neuropathy Release  372  polypectomy cervix  
173  Diagnostic cerebral angiography  373  Hysteroscopic resection of endometrial polyp   
174  VP shunt  374  Vulval wart excision  
175  Ventriculoatrial shunt  375  Laparoscopic paraovarian cyst excision  
Thoracic surgery  376  uterine artery embolization  
176   Thoracoscopy and Lung Biopsy  377  Bartholin Cyst excision  
177   Excision of cerv ical sympathetic Chain 
Thoracoscopic  378  Laparoscopic cystectomy  
178   Laser Ablation of Barrett's oesophagus  379  Hymenectomy( imperforate Hymen)  
179   Pleurodesis  380  Endometrial ablation  
180   Thoracoscopy and pleural biopsy  381  vaginal wall cyst excision  
181  EBUS + Biopsy  382  Vulval cyst Excision  
182   Thoracoscopy  ligation thoracic duct   383  Laparoscopic paratubal cyst  excision  
183  Thoracoscopy assisted empyaema drainage  384  Repair of vagina ( vaginal atresia )  
Gastroenterology  385  H ysteroscopy, removal of myoma  
184  Pancreatic pseudocyst EUS & drainage  386  TURBT  
185  RF ablation for barrett'sOesophagus  387  Ureterocoele repair - congenital internal  
186  ERCP and papillotomy  388  Vaginal mesh For POP  
187  Esophagoscope and sclero sant injection  389  Laparoscopic Myomectomy  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 48 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
188  EUS  + submucosal resection  390  Surgery for SUI  
189  Construction of gastrostomy tube  391  Repair recto - vagina fistula  
190  EUS +  aspiration pancreatic cyst  392  Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula repair)  
191  Small bowel endoscopy (therapeutic)  393  URS + LL  
192  Colonoscopy ,lesion removal  394  Laparoscopic oophorectomy  
193  ERCP   Critical care  
194  Colonscopy stenting of stricture  395  Insert non - tunnel CV cath  
195  Percutaneous Endoscopi c Gastrostomy  396  Insert PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central 
catheter )  
196  EUS and pancreatic pseudo cyst drainage  397  Replace PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central 
catheter )  
197  ERCP and choledochoscopy  398  Insertion catheter, intra ant erior 
198  Proctosigmoidoscopy volvulus detorsion  399  Insertion of Portacath  
199  ERCP and sphincterotomy   
200  Esophageal stent placement   
201  ERCP + placement of biliary stents   
202  Sigmoidoscopy w / stent   
203 US + coeliac node biopsy   
 
 
i) The standard exclusions and waiting periods are applicable to all of the above procedures depending on the 
medical condition/disease under treatment. Only 24 hours Hospitalization  is not mandatory.  
 
 
 
Annexure II: -  
 
List I: List of Non -Medical Items  
 
LIST O F NON -MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE  
1 BABY FOOD  
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES  
3 BEAUTY SERV ICES  
4 BUDS  
5 CARRY BAGS  
6 EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES  
7 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITA L)  
8 LAUNDRY CHARGES  
9 MINERAL WATER  
10 SANITARY PAD  
11 TELEPHONE CHARGES  
12 GUEST SERVICES  
13 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE  
14 TELEVISION CHARGES  
15 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)  
16 BIRTH CERTIFICATE  
17 CERTIFICATE CHARGES  
18 COURIER CHARGES  
19 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE  
    
 
   
 
UIN- BAJHLIP23020V012223                                  Global Health Care/ Policy Wordings/Page 49 
 
 
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance C o. Ltd.                       
Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113  
For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E -mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or  
Call at: Sales - 1800 209 0144 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (T oll Free No.)  
Issuing Office:  
 GLOBAL HEALTH CARE  
  
20 MEDICAL RECORDS  
21 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES  
22 SUGAR FREE Tablets  
23 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)  
24 CONVEYANCE CHARGES  
25 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR  
26 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL N URSING CHARGES  
 27 ATTENDANT CHARGES  
 
 
Annexure III: Indicative list of Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies  
 
A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU  
B. Balloon Sinuplasty  
C. Deep Brain stimulation  
D. Oral chemotherapy  
E. Immunotherap y- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection  
F. Intra vitreal injections  
G. Robotic surgeries  
H. Stereotactic radio surgeries  
I. Bronchical Thermoplasty  
J. Vaporisation of the  prostrate  (Green  laser  treatment  or  holmium  laser treatment)  
K. IONM -(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)  
L. Stem cell therapy:  Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to 
be covered  
 
 
Annexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness * 
 
ICD 
Code  Description  
F00-F09 Organic, including symptom atic, mental disorders    
F20-F29 Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders    
F30-F39 Mood [affective] disorders    
F40-F48 Neurotic, stress -related and somatoform disorders    
F50-F59 Behavioural syndromes associated with physiological disturba nces and physical factors    
F60-F69 Disorders of adult personality and behaviour   
F80-F89 Disorders of psychological development    
F90-F98 Behavioural and emotional disorders with onset usually occurring in childhood and 
adolescence    
F99 Unspecified m ental disorder    
 
 
*As per ICD -10 classification of Mental and Behavioral Disorders F10 -F19 consist of Mental and behavioral 
disorders due to psychoactive substance use which are not covered under "Mental Illness Treatment" and hence 
not listed in Annexur e IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness.  
 


--- DOCUMENT TABLES ---

Table 1:
                              COVER Unnamed: 0         IMPERIAL PLAN IMPERIAL PLUS PLAN              Unnamed: 1
0        In-patient Hospitalization        INR               INR INR                INR                 INR INR
1                  Treatment Limits  3,750,000  5,600,000  7,500,000         11,200,000  18,750,000  37,500,000
2        In-patient Hospitalization        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
3                               NaN        NaN     Up to Sum Insured                NaN                     NaN
4                         Treatment        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
5            Hospital accommodation        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
6                               NaN        NaN                   NaN          At Actual                     NaN
7               (Room rent and ICU)        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
8               Pre-hospitalisation        NaN                   NaN            60 days                     NaN
9              Post-hospitalisation        NaN                   NaN           180 days                     NaN
10           Local (Road) Ambulance        NaN     Up to Sum Insured                NaN                     NaN
11              Day Care Procedures        NaN     Up to Sum Insured                NaN                     NaN
12       Living Donor Medical Costs        NaN           INR 500,000                NaN                     NaN
13  Annual Preventive Health Check-        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
14                               up        NaN             INR 5,000                NaN                     NaN
15        (only offered at renewal)        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
16          Ayurvedic / Homeopathic        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
17                              NaN        NaN     Up to Sum Insured                NaN                     NaN
18         Hospitalization Expenses        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
19                              NaN        INR              INR  INR                INR                 INR INR
20                    Air Ambulance        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
21                              NaN    500,000       675,000 750,000            750,000        750,000  750,000
22         Mental Illness Treatment        NaN     Up to Sum Insured                NaN                     NaN
23                   Rehabilitation        NaN            INR 50,000                NaN                     NaN
24     Modern Treatment Methods and        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN
25                              NaN        NaN     Up to Sum Insured                NaN                     NaN
26      Advancement in Technologies        NaN                   NaN                NaN                     NaN

Table 2:
                          COVER Unnamed: 0                        IMPERIAL PLAN                             Unnamed: 1       IMPERIAL PLUS PLAN
0    In-patient Hospitalization        USD                              USD USD                                    USD                 USD  USD
1              Treatment Limits    100,000                      150,000 200,000                                300,000        500,000 1,000,000
2                           NaN        NaN              0 / USD 500 / USD 1,000                                    NaN                      NaN
3            Deductible options        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
4                           NaN        NaN          (on annual aggregate basis)                                    NaN                      NaN
5           In-patient benefits        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
6        Hospital accommodation        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
7                           NaN        NaN  Single Private Air Conditioned Room                                    NaN                      NaN
8                   (Room rent)        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
9        Hospital accommodation        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
10                          NaN        NaN                                  NaN                              At Actual                      NaN
11                        (ICU)        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
12          Pre-hospitalization        NaN                                  NaN                                45 days                      NaN
13         Post-hospitalization        NaN                                  NaN                                90 days                      NaN
14       Local (Road) Ambulance        NaN                    Up to Sum Insured                                    NaN                      NaN
15          Day Care Procedures        NaN                    Up to Sum Insured                                    NaN                      NaN
16   Living donor medical costs        NaN                           USD 30,000                                    NaN               USD 50,000
17               Air Ambulance*        NaN                            USD 7,500                                     NA                    NA NA
18                          NaN        NaN                                  NaN                              Up to In-      Up to In- Up to In-
19      Air Ambulance + Medical        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
20                          NaN        NaN                                   NA                            patient Sum  patient Sum patient Sum
21                  Evacuation*        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
22                          NaN        NaN                                  NaN                                Insured          Insured Insured
23     Mental Illness Treatment        NaN                    Up To Sum Insured                                    NaN                      NaN
24               Rehabilitation        NaN                              USD 750                                    NaN                USD 2,300
25      Accommodation costs for        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
26        one parent staying in        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
27                          NaN        NaN                                   NA                                    NaN        Up to Sum Insured
28     Hospital with an Insured        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
29  child under 18 years of age        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
30          Emergency treatment        NaN                                  NaN  Up to Sum Insured for maximum 6 Weeks                      NaN
31                          NaN        NaN                                   NA                                    NaN                      NaN
32        outside area of cover        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                 per trip
33        Medical repatriation*        NaN                                   NA                                    NaN        Up to Sum Insured
34       Repatriation of mortal        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
35                          NaN        NaN                                   NA                                    NaN               USD 13,500
36                     remains*        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
37       Inpatient cash Benefit        NaN                                   NA  USD 175 Per night up to max 25 nights                      NaN
38              Palliative care        NaN                                   NA                                    NaN        Up to Sum Insured
39     Modern Treatment Methods        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN
40           and Advancement in        NaN                    Up to Sum Insured                                    NaN                      NaN
41                 Technologies        NaN                                  NaN                                    NaN                      NaN

Table 3:
             Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
0   Bajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, P...
1   For more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz....
2   Call at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 18...
3                  Issuing Office: GLOBAL HEALTH CARE
4                                                 NaN
..                                                ...
64  d. The waiting period for listed conditions sh...
65                      without a specific exclusion.
66  e. If the Insured is continuously covered with...
67  stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for t...
68  f. List of specific diseases/procedures is as ...

[69 rows x 1 columns]

Table 4:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r\r1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers2. Cataracts,\r3. Any type of fistula4. Macular Degeneration\r5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy6. Hernia of all types\r7. All types of sinuses8. Fissure in ano\r9. Haemorrhoids, piles10. Hydrocele\r11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding12. Fibromyoma\r13. Endometriosis14. Hysterectomy\r15. Uterine Prolapse16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems\r18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/\r17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\rnodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps\radenoids/ paranasal sinuses\rwith exception of Malignant tumor or growth\r19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis\r20. Pancreatitis21. All forms of Cirrhosis\r22. Gout and rheumatism23. Tonsilitis\r24. Surgery for varicose veins and\r25. Chronic Kidney Disease\rvaricose ulcers\r26. Alzheimer’s Disease27. Joint replacement surgery\r28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (unless necessitated due29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum\rto an Accident)\r30. Hypertrophied turbinate31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies\r32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due to refractive error\rrecommended by Ophthalmologist33. Bariatric Surgery\rfor medical reasons with refractive\rerror greater or equal to 7.5\r34. Parkinson’s Disease35. Genetic disorders\r\r3)30-day waiting period (Code - Excl03)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall\rbe excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the same are covered.\rb.This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.\rc.The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting\rhigher Sum Insured subsequently.\r\r4)Investigation & Evaluation (Code- Excl04)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded.\rb.Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are\rexcluded.\r\r5)Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code -Excl05)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also\rincludes:\rb.Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living\rsuch as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.\rc.Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.\r\r6)Obesity/Weight Control (Code- Excl06)\ra.Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:\rb.Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor\rc.The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols\rd.The member has to be 18 years of age or older and\re.Body Mass Index (BMI);\ri.greater than or equal to 40 or\rii.greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure\rof less invasive methods of weight loss:                                         Unnamed: 0
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
1                 1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Cataracts,
2                              3. Any type of fistula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. Macular Degeneration
3                     5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6. Hernia of all types
4                             7. All types of sinuses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Fissure in ano
5                              9. Haemorrhoids, piles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10. Hydrocele
6                  11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12. Fibromyoma
7                                   13. Endometriosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14. Hysterectomy
8                                15. Uterine Prolapse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems
9   17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\radenoids/ parana...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18. Surgery on all internal or external tumour...
10                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecy...
11                                   20. Pancreatitis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21. All forms of Cirrhosis
12                            22. Gout and rheumatism                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23. Tonsilitis
13  24. Surgery for varicose veins and\rvaricose u...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25. Chronic Kidney Disease
14                            26. Alzheimer’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27. Joint replacement surgery
15  28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum
16                        30. Hypertrophied turbinate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies
17  32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              33. Bariatric Surgery
18                            34. Parkinson’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              35. Genetic disorders

Table 5:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r\r1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers2. Cataracts,\r3. Any type of fistula4. Macular Degeneration\r5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy6. Hernia of all types\r7. All types of sinuses8. Fissure in ano\r9. Haemorrhoids, piles10. Hydrocele\r11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding12. Fibromyoma\r13. Endometriosis14. Hysterectomy\r15. Uterine Prolapse16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems\r18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/\r17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\rnodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps\radenoids/ paranasal sinuses\rwith exception of Malignant tumor or growth\r19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis\r20. Pancreatitis21. All forms of Cirrhosis\r22. Gout and rheumatism23. Tonsilitis\r24. Surgery for varicose veins and\r25. Chronic Kidney Disease\rvaricose ulcers\r26. Alzheimer’s Disease27. Joint replacement surgery\r28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (unless necessitated due29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum\rto an Accident)\r30. Hypertrophied turbinate31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies\r32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due to refractive error\rrecommended by Ophthalmologist33. Bariatric Surgery\rfor medical reasons with refractive\rerror greater or equal to 7.5\r34. Parkinson’s Disease35. Genetic disorders\r\r3)30-day waiting period (Code - Excl03)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall\rbe excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the same are covered.\rb.This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.\rc.The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting\rhigher Sum Insured subsequently.\r\r4)Investigation & Evaluation (Code- Excl04)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded.\rb.Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are\rexcluded.\r\r5)Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code -Excl05)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also\rincludes:\rb.Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living\rsuch as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.\rc.Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.\r\r6)Obesity/Weight Control (Code- Excl06)\ra.Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:\rb.Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor\rc.The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols\rd.The member has to be 18 years of age or older and\re.Body Mass Index (BMI);\ri.greater than or equal to 40 or\rii.greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure\rof less invasive methods of weight loss:                                         Unnamed: 0
0                 1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Cataracts,
1                              3. Any type of fistula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. Macular Degeneration
2                     5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6. Hernia of all types
3                             7. All types of sinuses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Fissure in ano
4                              9. Haemorrhoids, piles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10. Hydrocele
5                  11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12. Fibromyoma
6                                   13. Endometriosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14. Hysterectomy
7                                15. Uterine Prolapse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems
8   17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\radenoids/ parana...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18. Surgery on all internal or external tumour...
9                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecy...
10                                   20. Pancreatitis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21. All forms of Cirrhosis
11                            22. Gout and rheumatism                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23. Tonsilitis
12  24. Surgery for varicose veins and\rvaricose u...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25. Chronic Kidney Disease
13                            26. Alzheimer’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27. Joint replacement surgery
14  28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum
15                        30. Hypertrophied turbinate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies
16  32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              33. Bariatric Surgery
17                            34. Parkinson’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              35. Genetic disorders

Table 6:
    2) Medical expenses where Inpatient care is not warranted and does not require supervision of qualified nursing
0  NaN  staff and qualified Medical Practitioner round...                                                          
1   3)  War, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostil...                                                          

Table 7:
  ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\rOut-patient treatment\rPrescribed medical aids\rPreventive treatment\rTravel costs of Insured family members in the event of an evacuation/repatriation\rTravel costs of Insured family members in the event of the repatriation of mortal remains\rTravel costs of Insured members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died\r29) Exclusions applicable to Mental Illness Treatment:\ra.Any expenses for Mental Illness Treatment related to Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive\rcondition and consequences thereof..\rb.Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the\rsame and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions.\rc.Alternate treatment other than Allopathic treatment are not covered.\rd.For autism spectrum disorder, admissions, stays or day care treatment at specialised educational facilities\rare not covered.\re.Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness.\r\r30) TheStandardExclusion under “Investigation & Evaluation(Code-Excl04) (a) Expenses related to any\radmission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only” are excluded even if the same requires\rconfinement at a Hospital.\r\r\rSECTION D) EXCLUSIONS- STANDARD EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO PART B- INTERNATIONAL COVER\rUNDER SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY\r\rA.Applicable for Part B-I (IN-PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER )\r\r1)Pre-Existing Diseases (Code-Excl01)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-Existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be\rexcluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global\rHealth Care Policy with Insurer.\rb.In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.\rc.If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant\rIRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior\rcoverage.\rd.Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same\rbeing declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.\r\r2)Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code-Excl02)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the\rexpiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global Health Care Policy\rwith Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident.\rb.In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.\rc.If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-Existing diseases,\rthen the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.\rd.The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted\rwithout a specific exclusion.\re.If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability\rstipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.\rf.List of specific diseases/procedures is as below\r\r1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers2. Cataracts,\r3. Any type of fistula4. Macular Degeneration\r5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy6. Hernia of all types\r7. All types of sinuses8. Fissure in ano\r9. Haemorrhoids, piles10. Hydrocele\r11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding12. Fibromyoma\r13. Endometriosis14. Hysterectomy               Unnamed: 0
0                1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Cataracts,
1                             3. Any type of fistula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Macular Degeneration
2                    5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6. Hernia of all types
3                            7. All types of sinuses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8. Fissure in ano
4                             9. Haemorrhoids, piles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10. Hydrocele
5                 11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12. Fibromyoma
6                                  13. Endometriosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14. Hysterectomy

Table 8:
  ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\rOut-patient treatment\rPrescribed medical aids\rPreventive treatment\rTravel costs of Insured family members in the event of an evacuation/repatriation\rTravel costs of Insured family members in the event of the repatriation of mortal remains\rTravel costs of Insured members to be with a family member who is at peril of death or who has died\r29) Exclusions applicable to Mental Illness Treatment:\ra.Any expenses for Mental Illness Treatment related to Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive\rcondition and consequences thereof..\rb.Any expenses for diagnostic tests, investigations / treatment taken without the psychiatrist advising the\rsame and which is not duly supported by his prescriptions.\rc.Alternate treatment other than Allopathic treatment are not covered.\rd.For autism spectrum disorder, admissions, stays or day care treatment at specialised educational facilities\rare not covered.\re.Out-patient Treatment for Mental Illness.\r\r30) TheStandardExclusion under “Investigation & Evaluation(Code-Excl04) (a) Expenses related to any\radmission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only” are excluded even if the same requires\rconfinement at a Hospital.\r\r\rSECTION D) EXCLUSIONS- STANDARD EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO PART B- INTERNATIONAL COVER\rUNDER SECTION C) BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY\r\rA.Applicable for Part B-I (IN-PATIENT BENEFITS FOR INTERNATIONAL COVER )\r\r1)Pre-Existing Diseases (Code-Excl01)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-Existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be\rexcluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global\rHealth Care Policy with Insurer.\rb.In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.\rc.If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant\rIRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior\rcoverage.\rd.Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same\rbeing declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.\r\r2)Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code-Excl02)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the\rexpiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Global Health Care Policy\rwith Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident.\rb.In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase.\rc.If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-Existing diseases,\rthen the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.\rd.The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared and accepted\rwithout a specific exclusion.\re.If the Insured is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability\rstipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.\rf.List of specific diseases/procedures is as below\r\r1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers2. Cataracts,\r3. Any type of fistula4. Macular Degeneration\r5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy6. Hernia of all types\r7. All types of sinuses8. Fissure in ano\r9. Haemorrhoids, piles10. Hydrocele\r11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding12. Fibromyoma\r13. Endometriosis14. Hysterectomy               Unnamed: 0
0                 ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NaN
1                1. Any type gastrointestinal ulcers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Cataracts,
2                             3. Any type of fistula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Macular Degeneration
3                    5. Benign prostatic hypertrophy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6. Hernia of all types
4                            7. All types of sinuses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8. Fissure in ano
5                             9. Haemorrhoids, piles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10. Hydrocele
6                 11. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12. Fibromyoma
7                                  13. Endometriosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14. Hysterectomy

Table 9:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r15. Uterine Prolapse16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems\r18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/\r17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\rnodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps\radenoids/ paranasal sinuses\rwith exception of Malignant tumor or growth\r19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis\r20. Pancreatitis21. All forms of Cirrhosis\r22. Gout and rheumatism23. Tonsilitis\r24. Surgery for varicose veins and\r25. Chronic Kidney Disease\rvaricose ulcers\r26. Alzheimer’s Disease27. Joint replacement surgery\r28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (unless necessitated due29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum\rto an Accident)\r30. Hypertrophied turbinate31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies\r32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due to refractive error\rrecommended by Ophthalmologist33. Bariatric Surgery\rfor medical reasons with refractive\rerror greater or equal to 7.5\r34. Parkinson’s Disease35. Genetic disorders\r\r3)30-day waiting period (Code-Excl03)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall\rbe excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the same are covered.\rb.This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.\rc.The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting\rhigher Sum Insured subsequently.\r\r4)Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Excl04)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded .\rb.Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are\rexcluded.\r\r5)Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Excl05)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also\rincludes:\rb.Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living\rsuch as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.\rc.Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.\r\r6)Obesity/Weight Control (Code-Excl06)\ra.Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:\rb.Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor\rc.The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols\rd.The member has to be 18 years of age or older and\re.Body Mass Index (BMI);\ri.greater than or equal to 40 or\rii.greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure\rof less invasive methods of weight loss:\rf.Obesity-related cardiomyopathy\rg.Coronary heart disease\rh.Severe Sleep Apnea\ri.Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes\r\r7)Change-of-gender treatments (Code-Excl07)\rExpenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those\rof the opposite sex.\r\r8)Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08)\rExpenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction\rfollowing an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of Medically Necessary Treatment to remove a direct and                                         Unnamed: 0
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NaN
1                                15. Uterine Prolapse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems
2   17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\radenoids/ parana...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18. Surgery on all internal or external tumour...
3                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecy...
4                                    20. Pancreatitis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21. All forms of Cirrhosis
5                             22. Gout and rheumatism                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 23. Tonsilitis
6   24. Surgery for varicose veins and\rvaricose u...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25. Chronic Kidney Disease
7                             26. Alzheimer’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27. Joint replacement surgery
8   28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum
9                         30. Hypertrophied turbinate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies
10  32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          33. Bariatric Surgery
11                            34. Parkinson’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          35. Genetic disorders

Table 10:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r15. Uterine Prolapse16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems\r18. Surgery on all internal or external tumours/ cysts/\r17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\rnodules/polyps of any kind including breast lumps\radenoids/ paranasal sinuses\rwith exception of Malignant tumor or growth\r19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecystitis\r20. Pancreatitis21. All forms of Cirrhosis\r22. Gout and rheumatism23. Tonsilitis\r24. Surgery for varicose veins and\r25. Chronic Kidney Disease\rvaricose ulcers\r26. Alzheimer’s Disease27. Joint replacement surgery\r28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (unless necessitated due29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum\rto an Accident)\r30. Hypertrophied turbinate31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies\r32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due to refractive error\rrecommended by Ophthalmologist33. Bariatric Surgery\rfor medical reasons with refractive\rerror greater or equal to 7.5\r34. Parkinson’s Disease35. Genetic disorders\r\r3)30-day waiting period (Code-Excl03)\ra.Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall\rbe excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the same are covered.\rb.This exclusion shall not, however apply if the Insured has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve months.\rc.The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting\rhigher Sum Insured subsequently.\r\r4)Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Excl04)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded .\rb.Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are\rexcluded.\r\r5)Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Excl05)\ra.Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also\rincludes:\rb.Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living\rsuch as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.\rc.Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.\r\r6)Obesity/Weight Control (Code-Excl06)\ra.Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:\rb.Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor\rc.The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols\rd.The member has to be 18 years of age or older and\re.Body Mass Index (BMI);\ri.greater than or equal to 40 or\rii.greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure\rof less invasive methods of weight loss:\rf.Obesity-related cardiomyopathy\rg.Coronary heart disease\rh.Severe Sleep Apnea\ri.Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes\r\r7)Change-of-gender treatments (Code-Excl07)\rExpenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those\rof the opposite sex.\r\r8)Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08)\rExpenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction\rfollowing an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of Medically Necessary Treatment to remove a direct and                                         Unnamed: 0
0                                15. Uterine Prolapse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16. Stones in the urinary and biliary systems
1   17. Surgery on ears/tonsils/\radenoids/ parana...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18. Surgery on all internal or external tumour...
2                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19. Diseases of gall bladder including cholecy...
3                                    20. Pancreatitis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21. All forms of Cirrhosis
4                             22. Gout and rheumatism                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 23. Tonsilitis
5   24. Surgery for varicose veins and\rvaricose u...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25. Chronic Kidney Disease
6                             26. Alzheimer’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27. Joint replacement surgery
7   28. Surgery for vertebral column\rdisorders  (...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29. Surgery to correct deviated nasal septum
8                         30. Hypertrophied turbinate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31. Congenital internal diseases or anomalies
9   32. Treatment for correction of eye\rsight due...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          33. Bariatric Surgery
10                            34. Parkinson’s Disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          35. Genetic disorders

Table 11:
                                      Period in Risk                     Premium Refund
0                                     Within 15 Days  As per Free Look period Condition
1  Exceeding 15  days but less than or equal to  ...                             65.00%
2  Exceeding 3 months but less than or equal to 6...                             45.00%
3  Exceeding 6 months but less than or equal to 9...                             20.00%
4  Exceeding 9 months but less than or equal to 1...                                 0%

Table 12:
                                        Unnamed: 0                               % of        Unnamed: 1
0                                              NaN                     % of Quarterly  % of Half Yearly
1     Period in Risk (From Latest instalment date)                            Monthly               NaN
2                                              NaN                            Premium           Premium
3                                              NaN                            Premium               NaN
4           Up to 15 days from 1st Instalment Date  As per Free Look Period Condition               NaN
5    Exceeding 15 days but less than or equal to 3                                NaN               NaN
6                                              NaN                                NaN               30%
7                                           months                                NaN               NaN
8                                              NaN                          No Refund               NaN
9   Exceeding 3 months but less than or equal to 6                                NaN               NaN
10                                             NaN                                NaN                0%
11                                          months                                NaN               NaN

Table 13:
  ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r42. Additional conditions as to Migration and or Portability:\rMigration and or Portability will be allowed only if the Insured is having the existing health policy which\rcovers both the Domestic and International health cover.\rIf the Insured has an existing Domestic Health Indemnity Policy and wants to opt for Global Health Care\rPolicy, then the Global Health Care Policy will be provided but accrued continuity benefits such as\rcumulative bonus, waiver of Waiting Period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the Policy has been\rmaintained without a break will be available only for Domestic Health Indemnity Covers.\r\r43. Discounts\ri.Employee Discount: 20% discount on published premium rates to employees of Bajaj Allianz & its group\rcompanies, this discount is applicable only if the Policy is booked in direct code.\rii.Online/Direct Business Discount: Discount of 5% will be offered in this product for policies underwritten through\rdirect/online channel.\rNote: this discount is not applicable for Employees who get employee discount.\rii.Family Discount: 5% family discount shall be offered if 2 or more eligible Family Members are covered under a\rsingle Policy.\rv.Voluntary Deductible: The customer can opt for aggregate deductible on International Inpatient Benefits and avail\rdiscount as below.\rDeductibleImperial PlanImperial Plus Plan\rUSD 5005%4%\rUSD 10009%6%\r\r\rSECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES - STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES\r\r44. Claims Procedure for Domestic Cover\rAll Claims will be settled by In house claims settlement team of the Company and no TPA is engaged. However the\rCompany reserves to engage TPA at any time, at the sole discretion of the Company.\rIf You meet with any Accidental Bodily Injury or suffer an Illness that may result in a claim, then as a Cashless\rFacility to Our liability, You must comply with the following:\rA. Cashless Claims Procedure:\rCashless treatment is only available at Network Hospitals. In order to avail of cashless treatment, the following\rprocedure must be followed by You:\ri.For planned treatment or Hospitalization, prior to taking treatment and/or incurring Medical Expenses at a\rNetwork Hospital, You or Your representative must intimate Us 48 hours before the planned Hospitalization and\rrequest pre-authorisation by way of the written form.\rii.After considering Your request and after obtaining any further information or documentation We have sought,\rWe may, if satisfied, send You or the Network Hospital, an authorisation letter. The authorisation letter, the ID\rcard issued to You along with this Policy and any other information or documentation that We have specified\rmust be produced to the Network Hospital identified in the pre-authorization letter at the time of Your admission\rto the same.\riii.If the procedure above is followed, You will not be required to directly pay for the bill amount in the Network\rHospital that We are liable under Section AI-Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment above and the original bills and\revidence of treatment in respect of the same shall be left with the Network Hospital. Pre-authorisation does not\rguarantee that all costs and expenses will be covered. We reserve the right to review each claim for Medical\rExpenses and accordingly coverage will be determined according to the terms and conditions of this Policy.\riv.In case any treatment or procedure is to be taken on an Emergency basis, You or Your representative must\rintimate Us in writing immediately within 24 hours of Hospitalization.\r\rB. Reimbursement Claims Procedure:\rIf Pre-authorisation as per Cashless Claims Procedure above is denied by Us or if treatment is taken in a Hospital\rother than a Network Hospital or if You do not wish to avail Cashless Facility, then:\ri.You or someone claiming on Your behalf must inform Us in writing immediately within 48 hours of Hospitalization\rin case of Emergency Hospitalization and 48 hours prior to Hospitalization in case of planned Hospitalization\rii.You must immediately consult a Medical Practitioner and follow the advice and treatment that he recommends.\riii.You must take reasonable steps or measures to minimize the quantum of any claim that may be made under this\rPolicy.\riv.You must have Yourself examined by Our medical advisors if We ask for this, and as often as We consider this to\rbe necessary at Our cost.  ...          Unnamed: 1
0                 ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...                 NaN
1                                         Deductible                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...  Imperial Plus Plan
2                                            USD 500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...                  4%
3                                           USD 1000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...                  6%

[4 rows x 3 columns]

Table 14:
  ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r42. Additional conditions as to Migration and or Portability:\rMigration and or Portability will be allowed only if the Insured is having the existing health policy which\rcovers both the Domestic and International health cover.\rIf the Insured has an existing Domestic Health Indemnity Policy and wants to opt for Global Health Care\rPolicy, then the Global Health Care Policy will be provided but accrued continuity benefits such as\rcumulative bonus, waiver of Waiting Period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the Policy has been\rmaintained without a break will be available only for Domestic Health Indemnity Covers.\r\r43. Discounts\ri.Employee Discount: 20% discount on published premium rates to employees of Bajaj Allianz & its group\rcompanies, this discount is applicable only if the Policy is booked in direct code.\rii.Online/Direct Business Discount: Discount of 5% will be offered in this product for policies underwritten through\rdirect/online channel.\rNote: this discount is not applicable for Employees who get employee discount.\rii.Family Discount: 5% family discount shall be offered if 2 or more eligible Family Members are covered under a\rsingle Policy.\rv.Voluntary Deductible: The customer can opt for aggregate deductible on International Inpatient Benefits and avail\rdiscount as below.\rDeductibleImperial PlanImperial Plus Plan\rUSD 5005%4%\rUSD 10009%6%\r\r\rSECTION E) GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES - STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES\r\r44. Claims Procedure for Domestic Cover\rAll Claims will be settled by In house claims settlement team of the Company and no TPA is engaged. However the\rCompany reserves to engage TPA at any time, at the sole discretion of the Company.\rIf You meet with any Accidental Bodily Injury or suffer an Illness that may result in a claim, then as a Cashless\rFacility to Our liability, You must comply with the following:\rA. Cashless Claims Procedure:\rCashless treatment is only available at Network Hospitals. In order to avail of cashless treatment, the following\rprocedure must be followed by You:\ri.For planned treatment or Hospitalization, prior to taking treatment and/or incurring Medical Expenses at a\rNetwork Hospital, You or Your representative must intimate Us 48 hours before the planned Hospitalization and\rrequest pre-authorisation by way of the written form.\rii.After considering Your request and after obtaining any further information or documentation We have sought,\rWe may, if satisfied, send You or the Network Hospital, an authorisation letter. The authorisation letter, the ID\rcard issued to You along with this Policy and any other information or documentation that We have specified\rmust be produced to the Network Hospital identified in the pre-authorization letter at the time of Your admission\rto the same.\riii.If the procedure above is followed, You will not be required to directly pay for the bill amount in the Network\rHospital that We are liable under Section AI-Inpatient Hospitalization Treatment above and the original bills and\revidence of treatment in respect of the same shall be left with the Network Hospital. Pre-authorisation does not\rguarantee that all costs and expenses will be covered. We reserve the right to review each claim for Medical\rExpenses and accordingly coverage will be determined according to the terms and conditions of this Policy.\riv.In case any treatment or procedure is to be taken on an Emergency basis, You or Your representative must\rintimate Us in writing immediately within 24 hours of Hospitalization.\r\rB. Reimbursement Claims Procedure:\rIf Pre-authorisation as per Cashless Claims Procedure above is denied by Us or if treatment is taken in a Hospital\rother than a Network Hospital or if You do not wish to avail Cashless Facility, then:\ri.You or someone claiming on Your behalf must inform Us in writing immediately within 48 hours of Hospitalization\rin case of Emergency Hospitalization and 48 hours prior to Hospitalization in case of planned Hospitalization\rii.You must immediately consult a Medical Practitioner and follow the advice and treatment that he recommends.\riii.You must take reasonable steps or measures to minimize the quantum of any claim that may be made under this\rPolicy.\riv.You must have Yourself examined by Our medical advisors if We ask for this, and as often as We consider this to\rbe necessary at Our cost.  ...          Unnamed: 1
0                                         Deductible                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...  Imperial Plus Plan
1                                            USD 500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...                  4%
2                                           USD 1000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...                  6%

[3 rows x 3 columns]

Table 15:
                                 Unnamed: 0      Unnamed: 1                        Jurisdiction of Office
0                                       NaN  Office Details                                           NaN
1                                       NaN             NaN                     Union Territory,District)
2                               AHMEDABAD -             NaN                                           NaN
3                       Insurance Ombudsman             NaN                                           NaN
4        Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN                                           NaN
5       Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,             NaN  Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu
6                  Tilak Marg, Relief Road,             NaN                                           NaN
7                      AHMEDABAD – 380 001.             NaN                                           NaN
8             Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06             NaN                                           NaN
9  Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in             NaN                                           NaN

Table 16:
                                    Unnamed: 0      Unnamed: 1                             Jurisdiction of Office
0                                          NaN  Office Details                                                NaN
1                                          NaN             NaN                          Union Territory,District)
2                                  BENGALURU -             NaN                                                NaN
3                          Insurance Ombudsman             NaN                                                NaN
4           Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN                                                NaN
5    Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19             NaN                                                NaN
6                                          NaN             NaN                                         Karnataka.
7         Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,             NaN                                                NaN
8    JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.             NaN                                                NaN
9              Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049             NaN                                                NaN
10    Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in             NaN                                                NaN
11                                    BHOPAL -             NaN                                                NaN
12                         Insurance Ombudsman             NaN                                                NaN
13          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN                                                NaN
14             Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,             NaN                                     Madhya Pradesh
15       6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,             NaN                                       Chattisgarh.
16          Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003.             NaN                                                NaN
17              Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202             NaN                                                NaN
18       Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in             NaN                                                NaN
19                              BHUBANESHWAR –             NaN                                                NaN
20                         Insurance Ombudsman             NaN                                                NaN
21          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN                                            Orissa.
22                            62, Forest park,             NaN                                                NaN
23                      Bhubaneswar – 751 009.             NaN                                                NaN
24               Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455             NaN                                                NaN
25  Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in             NaN                                                NaN
26                                CHANDIGARH -             NaN                                                NaN
27                         Insurance Ombudsman             NaN                                                NaN
28          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN                                                NaN
29                                         NaN             NaN  Punjab, Haryana (excluding Gurugram, Faridabad...
30       S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,             NaN                                                NaN
31                                         NaN             NaN  Bahadurgarh), Himachal Pradesh, Union Territor...
32              Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,             NaN                                                NaN
33                                         NaN             NaN                       Kashmir,Ladakh & Chandigarh.
34                       Chandigarh – 160 017.             NaN                                                NaN
35              Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468             NaN                                                NaN
36   Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in             NaN                                                NaN
37                                   CHENNAI -             NaN                                                NaN
38                         Insurance Ombudsman             NaN                                                NaN
39          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN                                                NaN
40        Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,             NaN                                                NaN
41                                         NaN             NaN  Tamil Nadu, PuducherryTown and Karaikal (which...
42                      Anna Salai, Teynampet,             NaN                                                NaN
43                          CHENNAI – 600 018.             NaN                                                NaN
44             Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284             NaN                                                NaN
45      Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in             NaN                                                NaN
46                                     DELHI –             NaN                                                NaN
47                         Insurance Ombudsman             NaN                                                NaN
48          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN  Delhi & following Districts of Haryana - Gurug...
49        2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,             NaN                                       Bahadurgarh.
50                              Asaf Ali Road,             NaN                                                NaN
51                        New Delhi – 110 002.             NaN                                                NaN
52               Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504             NaN                                                NaN
53        Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in             NaN                                                NaN
54                                  GUWAHATI -             NaN                                                NaN
55                         Insurance Ombudsman             NaN  Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal ...
56          Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,             NaN                                           Tripura.
57                   Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,             NaN                                                NaN
58        Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,             NaN                                                NaN
59                   Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).             NaN                                                NaN

Table 17:
                                           Unnamed: 0                             Jurisdiction of Office
0                                      Office Details                                                NaN
1                                                 NaN                          Union Territory,District)
2                      Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205                                                NaN
3             Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
4                                         HYDERABAD -                                                NaN
5                                 Insurance Ombudsman                                                NaN
6                  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,                                                NaN
7                    6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",  Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Yanam and part of U...
8                   Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,                                        Puducherry.
9   A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.                                                NaN
10                               Tel.: 040 - 23312122                                                NaN
11           Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
12                                           JAIPUR -                                                NaN
13                                Insurance Ombudsman                                                NaN
14                 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,                                                NaN
15                Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,                                                NaN
16                                                NaN                                         Rajasthan.
17                                Bhawani Singh Marg,                                                NaN
18                                  Jaipur - 302 005.                                                NaN
19                               Tel.: 0141 - 2740363                                                NaN
20              Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
21                                        ERNAKULAM –                                                NaN
22                                Insurance Ombudsman                                                NaN
23                 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,                                                NaN
24                          2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,  Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe-a part of Union Terr...
25                  Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,                                                NaN
26                               Ernakulam - 682 015.                                                NaN
27                     Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338                                                NaN
28           Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
29                                          KOLKATA –                                                NaN
30                                Insurance Ombudsman                                                NaN
31                 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,                                                NaN
32                 Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,    West Bengal, Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
33                                    4, C.R. Avenue,                                                NaN
34                                 KOLKATA - 700 072.                                                NaN
35                    Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340                                                NaN
36             Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
37                                          LUCKNOW –  Districts of Uttar Pradesh : Lalitpur, Jhansi,...
38                                Insurance Ombudsman  Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, F...
39                 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Luc...
40                6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,  Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sra...
41                    Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,  Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarn...
42                                 Lucknow - 226 001.  Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushina...
43                     Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331  Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnag...
44             Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
45                                           MUMBAI -                                                NaN
46                                Insurance Ombudsman                                                NaN
47                 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,                                                NaN
48                     3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,                                                NaN
49                                                NaN  Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Nav...
50                         S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),                                                NaN
51                                  Mumbai - 400 054.                                                NaN
52       Tel.: 69038821/23/24/25/26/27/28/28/29/30/31                                                NaN
53              Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
54                                            NOIDA -  State of Uttarakhand and the following Distric...
55                                Insurance Ombudsman  Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, Bul...
56                 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffar...
57                               Bhagwan Sahai Palace  Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautam Buddh na...

Table 18:
                                     Unnamed: 0                             Jurisdiction of Office
0                                Office Details                                                NaN
1                                           NaN                          Union Territory,District)
2   4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15,  Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj,...
3        Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.               Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
4                  Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253                                                NaN
5          Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
6                                       PATNA –                                                NaN
7                           Insurance Ombudsman                                                NaN
8            Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,                                             Bihar,
9                      2nd Floor, Lalit Bhawan,                                         Jharkhand.
10                                 Bailey Road,                                                NaN
11                               Patna 800 001.                                                NaN
12                           Tel.: 0612-2547068                                                NaN
13         Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in                                                NaN
14                                       PUNE -                                                NaN
15                          Insurance Ombudsman                                                NaN
16           Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,                                                NaN
17             Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  Maharashtra, Areas of Navi Mumbai and Thane (e...
18   C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road,                              Metropolitan Region).
19                Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030.                                                NaN
20                           Tel.: 020-41312555                                                NaN
21          Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in                                                NaN

Table 19:
                                                  ENT                               General Surgery
0                                      1  Stapedotomy                 204  Infected Keloid Excision
1              2  Myringoplasty(Type I Tympanoplasty)  205  Incision of a pilonidal sinus / abscess
2                            3  Revision stapedectomy                 206  Axillary lymphadenectomy
3               4  Labyrinthectomy for severe Vertigo                207Wound debridement and Cover
4                            5  Stapedectomy under GA                      208Abscess-Decompression
5                                   6  Ossiculoplasty                 209  Cervical lymphadenectomy
6               7  Myringotomy with Grommet Insertion                  210  infected sebaceous cyst
7                         8  Tympanoplasty (Type III)                 211  Inguinal lymphadenectomy
8                            9  Stapedectomy under LA           212Incision and drainage of Abscess
9   10  Revision of the fenestration of the inner ...                  213  Suturing of lacerations
10                        11  Tympanoplasty (Type IV)                           214  Scalp Suturing
11        12  Endolymphatic Sac Surgery for Meniere's                                           NaN
12                                                NaN                 215  Infected lipoma excision
13                                            Disease                                           NaN
14                                   13  Turbinectomy                  216  Maximal anal dilatation
15             14  Removal of Tympanic Drain under LA                                    217  Piles
16                        15  Endoscopic Stapedectomy                     A)Injection Sclerotherapy
17                  16  Fenestration of the inner ear                               B)Piles banding
18        17  Incision and drainage of perichondritis         218  Liver Abscess- catheter drainage
19                                    18  Septoplasty             219  Fissure in Ano- fissurectomy
20                       19  Vestibular Nerve section             220  Fibroadenoma breast excision
21                             20  Thyroplasty Type I          221  OesophagealvaricesSclerotherapy

Table 20:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r21  Pseudocyst of the Pinna - Excision222  ERCP - pancreatic duct stone removal\r22  Incision and drainage - Haematoma Auricle223   Perianal abscess I&D\r23  Tympanoplasty (Type II)224  Perianal hematoma Evacuation\r24  Keratosis removal under GA225  Fissure in anosphincterotomy\r25  Reduction of fracture of Nasal Bone226  UGI scopy and Polypectomyoesophagus\r26  Excision and destruction of lingual tonsils227  Breast abscess I& D\r27  Conchoplasty228  Feeding Gastrostomy\r28   Thyroplasty Type II229  Oesophagoscopy and biopsy of growth oesophagus\r230  UGI scopy and injection of adrenaline, sclerosants   -\r29  Tracheostomy\rbleeding ulcers\r30  Excision of Angioma Septum231  ERCP - Bile duct stone removal\r31  Turbinoplasty232  Ileostomy closure\r32  Incision & Drainage of Retro Pharyngeal\r233  Colonoscopy\rAbscess\r33  UvuloPalatoPharyngoPlasty234  Polypectomy colon\r34  Palatoplasty235  Splenic abscesses  Laparoscopic Drainage\r35  Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy236  UGI SCOPY and Polypectomy stomach\r36  Adenoidectomy with Grommet insertion237   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for FB removal\r37  Adenoidectomy without  Grommet insertion238  Feeding Jejunostomy\r38  Vocal Cord lateralisation Procedure239   Colostomy\r39  Incision & Drainage of Para Pharyngeal\r240  Ileostomy\rAbscess\r40  Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal\r241  colostomy closure\rabscess\r41  Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy242  Submandibular salivary duct stone removal\r42  Tracheoplasty Ophthalmology243  Pneumatic reduction of intussusception\r43  Incision of tear glands244  Varicose veins legs - Injection sclerotherapy\r245   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for Plummer vinson\r44  Other operation on the tear ducts\rsyndrome\r45  Incision of diseased eyelids246   Pancreatic Pseudocysts Endoscopic  Drainage\r46  Excision and destruction of the diseased tissue\r247   ZADEK's Nail bed excision\rof the eyelid\r47  Removal of foreign body from the lens of the\r248   Subcutaneous mastectomy\reye.\r48  Corrective surgery of the entropion and\r249  Excision of Ranula under GA\rectropion\r250   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for dilation of benign\r49  Operations for pterygium\rStrictures\r50  Corrective surgery of blepharoptosis251   Eversion of Sac\r51  Removal of foreign body from conjunctivaa) Unilateral\r52  Biopsy of tear glandb)Bilateral\r53  Removal of Foreign body from cornea252   Lord's plication\r54  Incision of the cornea253   Jaboulay's Procedure\r55  Other operations on the cornea254   Scrotoplasty\r56  Operation on the canthus and epicanthus255   Surgical treatment of varicocele\r57  Removal of foreign body from the orbit and the\r256   Epididymectomy\reye ball.\r58  Surgery for cataract257  Circumcision for Trauma\r59  Treatment of retinal lesion258   Meatoplasty                                         Unnamed: 0
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NaN
1              21  Pseudocyst of the Pinna - Excision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    222  ERCP - pancreatic duct stone removal
2       22  Incision and drainage - Haematoma Auricle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   223   Perianal abscess I&D
3                         23  Tympanoplasty (Type II)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            224  Perianal hematoma Evacuation
4                      24  Keratosis removal under GA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            225  Fissure in anosphincterotomy
5             25  Reduction of fracture of Nasal Bone                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     226  UGI scopy and Polypectomyoesophagus
6     26  Excision and destruction of lingual tonsils                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     227  Breast abscess I& D
7                                    27  Conchoplasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     228  Feeding Gastrostomy
8                            28   Thyroplasty Type II                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            229  Oesophagoscopy and biopsy of growth oesop...
9                                    29  Tracheostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            230  UGI scopy and injection of adrenaline, sc...
10                     30  Excision of Angioma Septum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          231  ERCP - Bile duct stone removal
11                                  31  Turbinoplasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       232  Ileostomy closure
12  32  Incision & Drainage of Retro Pharyngeal\rA...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             233  Colonoscopy
13                      33  UvuloPalatoPharyngoPlasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       234  Polypectomy colon
14                                   34  Palatoplasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                235  Splenic abscesses  Laparoscopic Drainage
15            35  Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       236  UGI SCOPY and Polypectomy stomach
16           36  Adenoidectomy with Grommet insertion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    237   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for FB removal
17       37  Adenoidectomy without  Grommet insertion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     238  Feeding Jejunostomy
18            38  Vocal Cord lateralisation Procedure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              239   Colostomy
19  39  Incision & Drainage of Para Pharyngeal\rAb...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               240  Ileostomy
20  40  Transoral incision and drainage of a phary...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       241  colostomy closure
21               41  Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               242  Submandibular salivary duct stone removal
22                    42  Tracheoplasty Ophthalmology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  243  Pneumatic reduction of intussusception
23                        43  Incision of tear glands                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            244  Varicose veins legs - Injection sclerothe...
24              44  Other operation on the tear ducts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            245   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for Plummer vinson\...
25                   45  Incision of diseased eyelids                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            246   Pancreatic Pseudocysts Endoscopic  Drainage
26  46  Excision and destruction of the diseased t...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              247   ZADEK's Nail bed excision
27  47  Removal of foreign body from the lens of t...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                248   Subcutaneous mastectomy
28  48  Corrective surgery of the entropion and\re...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             249  Excision of Ranula under GA
29                       49  Operations for pterygium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            250   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for dilation of ben...
30           50  Corrective surgery of blepharoptosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        251   Eversion of Sac
31       51  Removal of foreign body from conjunctiva                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a) Unilateral
32                           52  Biopsy of tear gland                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  b)Bilateral
33            53  Removal of Foreign body from cornea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       252   Lord's plication
34                         54  Incision of the cornea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   253   Jaboulay's Procedure
35                 55  Other operations on the cornea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           254   Scrotoplasty
36        56  Operation on the canthus and epicanthus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       255   Surgical treatment of varicocele
37  57  Removal of foreign body from the orbit and...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         256   Epididymectomy
38                           58  Surgery for cataract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 257  Circumcision for Trauma
39                    59  Treatment of retinal lesion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            258   Meatoplasty

Table 21:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r21  Pseudocyst of the Pinna - Excision222  ERCP - pancreatic duct stone removal\r22  Incision and drainage - Haematoma Auricle223   Perianal abscess I&D\r23  Tympanoplasty (Type II)224  Perianal hematoma Evacuation\r24  Keratosis removal under GA225  Fissure in anosphincterotomy\r25  Reduction of fracture of Nasal Bone226  UGI scopy and Polypectomyoesophagus\r26  Excision and destruction of lingual tonsils227  Breast abscess I& D\r27  Conchoplasty228  Feeding Gastrostomy\r28   Thyroplasty Type II229  Oesophagoscopy and biopsy of growth oesophagus\r230  UGI scopy and injection of adrenaline, sclerosants   -\r29  Tracheostomy\rbleeding ulcers\r30  Excision of Angioma Septum231  ERCP - Bile duct stone removal\r31  Turbinoplasty232  Ileostomy closure\r32  Incision & Drainage of Retro Pharyngeal\r233  Colonoscopy\rAbscess\r33  UvuloPalatoPharyngoPlasty234  Polypectomy colon\r34  Palatoplasty235  Splenic abscesses  Laparoscopic Drainage\r35  Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy236  UGI SCOPY and Polypectomy stomach\r36  Adenoidectomy with Grommet insertion237   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for FB removal\r37  Adenoidectomy without  Grommet insertion238  Feeding Jejunostomy\r38  Vocal Cord lateralisation Procedure239   Colostomy\r39  Incision & Drainage of Para Pharyngeal\r240  Ileostomy\rAbscess\r40  Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal\r241  colostomy closure\rabscess\r41  Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy242  Submandibular salivary duct stone removal\r42  Tracheoplasty Ophthalmology243  Pneumatic reduction of intussusception\r43  Incision of tear glands244  Varicose veins legs - Injection sclerotherapy\r245   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for Plummer vinson\r44  Other operation on the tear ducts\rsyndrome\r45  Incision of diseased eyelids246   Pancreatic Pseudocysts Endoscopic  Drainage\r46  Excision and destruction of the diseased tissue\r247   ZADEK's Nail bed excision\rof the eyelid\r47  Removal of foreign body from the lens of the\r248   Subcutaneous mastectomy\reye.\r48  Corrective surgery of the entropion and\r249  Excision of Ranula under GA\rectropion\r250   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for dilation of benign\r49  Operations for pterygium\rStrictures\r50  Corrective surgery of blepharoptosis251   Eversion of Sac\r51  Removal of foreign body from conjunctivaa) Unilateral\r52  Biopsy of tear glandb)Bilateral\r53  Removal of Foreign body from cornea252   Lord's plication\r54  Incision of the cornea253   Jaboulay's Procedure\r55  Other operations on the cornea254   Scrotoplasty\r56  Operation on the canthus and epicanthus255   Surgical treatment of varicocele\r57  Removal of foreign body from the orbit and the\r256   Epididymectomy\reye ball.\r58  Surgery for cataract257  Circumcision for Trauma\r59  Treatment of retinal lesion258   Meatoplasty                                         Unnamed: 0
0              21  Pseudocyst of the Pinna - Excision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    222  ERCP - pancreatic duct stone removal
1       22  Incision and drainage - Haematoma Auricle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   223   Perianal abscess I&D
2                         23  Tympanoplasty (Type II)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            224  Perianal hematoma Evacuation
3                      24  Keratosis removal under GA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            225  Fissure in anosphincterotomy
4             25  Reduction of fracture of Nasal Bone                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     226  UGI scopy and Polypectomyoesophagus
5     26  Excision and destruction of lingual tonsils                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     227  Breast abscess I& D
6                                    27  Conchoplasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     228  Feeding Gastrostomy
7                            28   Thyroplasty Type II                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            229  Oesophagoscopy and biopsy of growth oesop...
8                                    29  Tracheostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            230  UGI scopy and injection of adrenaline, sc...
9                      30  Excision of Angioma Septum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          231  ERCP - Bile duct stone removal
10                                  31  Turbinoplasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       232  Ileostomy closure
11  32  Incision & Drainage of Retro Pharyngeal\rA...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             233  Colonoscopy
12                      33  UvuloPalatoPharyngoPlasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       234  Polypectomy colon
13                                   34  Palatoplasty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                235  Splenic abscesses  Laparoscopic Drainage
14            35  Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       236  UGI SCOPY and Polypectomy stomach
15           36  Adenoidectomy with Grommet insertion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    237   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for FB removal
16       37  Adenoidectomy without  Grommet insertion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     238  Feeding Jejunostomy
17            38  Vocal Cord lateralisation Procedure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              239   Colostomy
18  39  Incision & Drainage of Para Pharyngeal\rAb...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               240  Ileostomy
19  40  Transoral incision and drainage of a phary...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       241  colostomy closure
20               41  Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               242  Submandibular salivary duct stone removal
21                    42  Tracheoplasty Ophthalmology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  243  Pneumatic reduction of intussusception
22                        43  Incision of tear glands                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            244  Varicose veins legs - Injection sclerothe...
23              44  Other operation on the tear ducts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            245   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for Plummer vinson\...
24                   45  Incision of diseased eyelids                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            246   Pancreatic Pseudocysts Endoscopic  Drainage
25  46  Excision and destruction of the diseased t...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              247   ZADEK's Nail bed excision
26  47  Removal of foreign body from the lens of t...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                248   Subcutaneous mastectomy
27  48  Corrective surgery of the entropion and\re...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             249  Excision of Ranula under GA
28                       49  Operations for pterygium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            250   Rigid Oesophagoscopy for dilation of ben...
29           50  Corrective surgery of blepharoptosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        251   Eversion of Sac
30       51  Removal of foreign body from conjunctiva                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a) Unilateral
31                           52  Biopsy of tear gland                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  b)Bilateral
32            53  Removal of Foreign body from cornea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       252   Lord's plication
33                         54  Incision of the cornea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   253   Jaboulay's Procedure
34                 55  Other operations on the cornea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           254   Scrotoplasty
35        56  Operation on the canthus and epicanthus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       255   Surgical treatment of varicocele
36  57  Removal of foreign body from the orbit and...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         256   Epididymectomy
37                           58  Surgery for cataract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 257  Circumcision for Trauma
38                    59  Treatment of retinal lesion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            258   Meatoplasty

Table 22:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r60  Removal of foreign body from the posterior\r259  Intersphincteric abscess incision and drainage\rchamber of the eye\rOncology260  Psoas Abscess Incision and Drainage\r61  IV Push Chemotherapy261  Thyroid abscess Incision and Drainage\r62  HBI-Hemibody Radiotherapy262   TIPS procedure for  portal hypertension\r63  Infusional Targeted therapy263  Esophageal  Growth stent\r64  SRT-Stereotactic Arc Therapy264  PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst liver\r65  SC administration of  Growth Factors265  Tru cut liver biopsy\r266   Photodynamic therapy or esophageal tumour and\r66  Continuous Infusional Chemotherapy\rLung tumour\r67  Infusional Chemotherapy267   Excision of Cervical RIB\r68  CCRT-Concurrent Chemo + RT268   laparoscopic reduction of intussusception\r69  2D Radiotherapy269   Microdochectomy breast\r70  3D Conformal Radiotherapy270  Surgery for fracture Penis\r71  IGRT- Image Guided Radiotherapy271   Sentinel node biopsy\r72  IMRT- Step & Shoot272  Parastomal hernia\r73  Infusional Bisphosphonates273  Revision colostomy\r74  IMRT- DMLC274  Prolapsed colostomy- Correction\r75  Rotational Arc Therapy275  Testicular biopsy\r76   Tele gamma therapy276  laparoscopic cardiomyotomy( Hellers)\r77  FSRT-Fractionated SRT277  Sentinel node biopsy malignant melanoma\r78  VMAT-Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy278   laparoscopic pyloromyotomy( Ramstedt)\r79  SBRT-Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy\rOrthopedics\r80  Helical Tomotherapy279  Arthroscopic Repair of ACL tear knee\r81  SRS-Stereotactic Radiosurgery280  Closed reduction of minor Fractures\r82  X-Knife SRS281  Arthroscopic repair of PCL tear knee\r83  Gammaknife SRS282  Tendon shortening\r84  TBI- Total Body Radiotherapy283  Arthroscopic  Meniscectomy - Knee\r85  intraluminal Brachytherapy284  Treatment of clavicle dislocation\r86   Electron Therapy285  Arthroscopic meniscus repair\r87  TSET-Total Electron Skin Therapy286  Haemarthrosis knee- lavage\r88  Extracorporeal Irradiation of  Blood Products287  Abscess  knee joint drainage\r89  Telecobalt Therapy288  Carpal tunnel release\r90  Telecesium Therapy289  Closed reduction of minor dislocation\r91   External mould Brachytherapy290  Repair of knee cap tendon\r92   Interstitial Brachytherapy291  ORIF with K wire fixation- small bones\r93  Intracavity Brachytherapy292  Release of midfoot joint\r94  3D Brachytherapy293  ORIF with plating- Small long bones\r95  Implant Brachytherapy294  Implant removal minor\r96  Intravesical Brachytherapy295  K wire removal\r97  Adjuvant Radiotherapy296  POP application\r98   Afterloading Catheter Brachytherapy297  Closed reduction and external fixation\r99  Conditioning Radiothearpy for BMT298  Arthrotomy Hip joint\r100  Extracorporeal Irradiation to the Homologous\r299  Syme's amputation\rBone grafts\r101  Radical chemotherapy300  Arthroplasty\r102  Neoadjuvant radiotherapy301  Partial removal of rib                                         Unnamed: 0
0   60  Removal of foreign body from the posterior...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              259  Intersphincteric abscess incision and dra...
1                                            Oncology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       260  Psoas Abscess Incision and Drainage
2                            61  IV Push Chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     261  Thyroid abscess Incision and Drainage
3                       62  HBI-Hemibody Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  262   TIPS procedure for  portal hypertension
4                     63  Infusional Targeted therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  263  Esophageal  Growth stent
5                    64  SRT-Stereotactic Arc Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      264  PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst liver
6            65  SC administration of  Growth Factors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      265  Tru cut liver biopsy
7              66  Continuous Infusional Chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              266   Photodynamic therapy or esophageal tumou...
8                         67  Infusional Chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 267   Excision of Cervical RIB
9                      68  CCRT-Concurrent Chemo + RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                268   laparoscopic reduction of intussusception
10                                69  2D Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   269   Microdochectomy breast
11                      70  3D Conformal Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                270  Surgery for fracture Penis
12                71  IGRT- Image Guided Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     271   Sentinel node biopsy
13                             72  IMRT- Step & Shoot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         272  Parastomal hernia
14                     73  Infusional Bisphosphonates                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        273  Revision colostomy
15                                     74  IMRT- DMLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           274  Prolapsed colostomy- Correction
16                         75  Rotational Arc Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         275  Testicular biopsy
17                            76   Tele gamma therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      276  laparoscopic cardiomyotomy( Hellers)
18                          77  FSRT-Fractionated SRT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   277  Sentinel node biopsy malignant melanoma
19          78  VMAT-Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    278   laparoscopic pyloromyotomy( Ramstedt)
20            79  SBRT-Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Orthopedics
21                            80  Helical Tomotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      279  Arthroscopic Repair of ACL tear knee
22                  81  SRS-Stereotactic Radiosurgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       280  Closed reduction of minor Fractures
23                                    82  X-Knife SRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      281  Arthroscopic repair of PCL tear knee
24                                 83  Gammaknife SRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         282  Tendon shortening
25                   84  TBI- Total Body Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         283  Arthroscopic  Meniscectomy - Knee
26                     85  intraluminal Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         284  Treatment of clavicle dislocation
27                              86   Electron Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              285  Arthroscopic meniscus repair
28               87  TSET-Total Electron Skin Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                286  Haemarthrosis knee- lavage
29  88  Extracorporeal Irradiation of  Blood Products                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              287  Abscess  knee joint drainage
30                             89  Telecobalt Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     288  Carpal tunnel release
31                             90  Telecesium Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     289  Closed reduction of minor dislocation
32                  91   External mould Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 290  Repair of knee cap tendon
33                    92   Interstitial Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    291  ORIF with K wire fixation- small bones
34                      93  Intracavity Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  292  Release of midfoot joint
35                               94  3D Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       293  ORIF with plating- Small long bones
36                          95  Implant Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     294  Implant removal minor
37                     96  Intravesical Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            295  K wire removal
38                          97  Adjuvant Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           296  POP application
39           98   Afterloading Catheter Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    297  Closed reduction and external fixation
40              99  Conditioning Radiothearpy for BMT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      298  Arthrotomy Hip joint
41  100  Extracorporeal Irradiation to the Homolog...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         299  Syme's amputation
42                          101  Radical chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300  Arthroplasty
43                      102  Neoadjuvant radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    301  Partial removal of rib

Table 23:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r60  Removal of foreign body from the posterior\r259  Intersphincteric abscess incision and drainage\rchamber of the eye\rOncology260  Psoas Abscess Incision and Drainage\r61  IV Push Chemotherapy261  Thyroid abscess Incision and Drainage\r62  HBI-Hemibody Radiotherapy262   TIPS procedure for  portal hypertension\r63  Infusional Targeted therapy263  Esophageal  Growth stent\r64  SRT-Stereotactic Arc Therapy264  PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst liver\r65  SC administration of  Growth Factors265  Tru cut liver biopsy\r266   Photodynamic therapy or esophageal tumour and\r66  Continuous Infusional Chemotherapy\rLung tumour\r67  Infusional Chemotherapy267   Excision of Cervical RIB\r68  CCRT-Concurrent Chemo + RT268   laparoscopic reduction of intussusception\r69  2D Radiotherapy269   Microdochectomy breast\r70  3D Conformal Radiotherapy270  Surgery for fracture Penis\r71  IGRT- Image Guided Radiotherapy271   Sentinel node biopsy\r72  IMRT- Step & Shoot272  Parastomal hernia\r73  Infusional Bisphosphonates273  Revision colostomy\r74  IMRT- DMLC274  Prolapsed colostomy- Correction\r75  Rotational Arc Therapy275  Testicular biopsy\r76   Tele gamma therapy276  laparoscopic cardiomyotomy( Hellers)\r77  FSRT-Fractionated SRT277  Sentinel node biopsy malignant melanoma\r78  VMAT-Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy278   laparoscopic pyloromyotomy( Ramstedt)\r79  SBRT-Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy\rOrthopedics\r80  Helical Tomotherapy279  Arthroscopic Repair of ACL tear knee\r81  SRS-Stereotactic Radiosurgery280  Closed reduction of minor Fractures\r82  X-Knife SRS281  Arthroscopic repair of PCL tear knee\r83  Gammaknife SRS282  Tendon shortening\r84  TBI- Total Body Radiotherapy283  Arthroscopic  Meniscectomy - Knee\r85  intraluminal Brachytherapy284  Treatment of clavicle dislocation\r86   Electron Therapy285  Arthroscopic meniscus repair\r87  TSET-Total Electron Skin Therapy286  Haemarthrosis knee- lavage\r88  Extracorporeal Irradiation of  Blood Products287  Abscess  knee joint drainage\r89  Telecobalt Therapy288  Carpal tunnel release\r90  Telecesium Therapy289  Closed reduction of minor dislocation\r91   External mould Brachytherapy290  Repair of knee cap tendon\r92   Interstitial Brachytherapy291  ORIF with K wire fixation- small bones\r93  Intracavity Brachytherapy292  Release of midfoot joint\r94  3D Brachytherapy293  ORIF with plating- Small long bones\r95  Implant Brachytherapy294  Implant removal minor\r96  Intravesical Brachytherapy295  K wire removal\r97  Adjuvant Radiotherapy296  POP application\r98   Afterloading Catheter Brachytherapy297  Closed reduction and external fixation\r99  Conditioning Radiothearpy for BMT298  Arthrotomy Hip joint\r100  Extracorporeal Irradiation to the Homologous\r299  Syme's amputation\rBone grafts\r101  Radical chemotherapy300  Arthroplasty\r102  Neoadjuvant radiotherapy301  Partial removal of rib                                         Unnamed: 0
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NaN
1   60  Removal of foreign body from the posterior...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              259  Intersphincteric abscess incision and dra...
2                                            Oncology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       260  Psoas Abscess Incision and Drainage
3                            61  IV Push Chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     261  Thyroid abscess Incision and Drainage
4                       62  HBI-Hemibody Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  262   TIPS procedure for  portal hypertension
5                     63  Infusional Targeted therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  263  Esophageal  Growth stent
6                    64  SRT-Stereotactic Arc Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      264  PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst liver
7            65  SC administration of  Growth Factors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      265  Tru cut liver biopsy
8              66  Continuous Infusional Chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              266   Photodynamic therapy or esophageal tumou...
9                         67  Infusional Chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 267   Excision of Cervical RIB
10                     68  CCRT-Concurrent Chemo + RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                268   laparoscopic reduction of intussusception
11                                69  2D Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   269   Microdochectomy breast
12                      70  3D Conformal Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                270  Surgery for fracture Penis
13                71  IGRT- Image Guided Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     271   Sentinel node biopsy
14                             72  IMRT- Step & Shoot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         272  Parastomal hernia
15                     73  Infusional Bisphosphonates                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        273  Revision colostomy
16                                     74  IMRT- DMLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           274  Prolapsed colostomy- Correction
17                         75  Rotational Arc Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         275  Testicular biopsy
18                            76   Tele gamma therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      276  laparoscopic cardiomyotomy( Hellers)
19                          77  FSRT-Fractionated SRT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   277  Sentinel node biopsy malignant melanoma
20          78  VMAT-Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    278   laparoscopic pyloromyotomy( Ramstedt)
21            79  SBRT-Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Orthopedics
22                            80  Helical Tomotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      279  Arthroscopic Repair of ACL tear knee
23                  81  SRS-Stereotactic Radiosurgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       280  Closed reduction of minor Fractures
24                                    82  X-Knife SRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      281  Arthroscopic repair of PCL tear knee
25                                 83  Gammaknife SRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         282  Tendon shortening
26                   84  TBI- Total Body Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         283  Arthroscopic  Meniscectomy - Knee
27                     85  intraluminal Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         284  Treatment of clavicle dislocation
28                              86   Electron Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              285  Arthroscopic meniscus repair
29               87  TSET-Total Electron Skin Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                286  Haemarthrosis knee- lavage
30  88  Extracorporeal Irradiation of  Blood Products                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              287  Abscess  knee joint drainage
31                             89  Telecobalt Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     288  Carpal tunnel release
32                             90  Telecesium Therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     289  Closed reduction of minor dislocation
33                  91   External mould Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 290  Repair of knee cap tendon
34                    92   Interstitial Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    291  ORIF with K wire fixation- small bones
35                      93  Intracavity Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  292  Release of midfoot joint
36                               94  3D Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       293  ORIF with plating- Small long bones
37                          95  Implant Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     294  Implant removal minor
38                     96  Intravesical Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            295  K wire removal
39                          97  Adjuvant Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           296  POP application
40           98   Afterloading Catheter Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    297  Closed reduction and external fixation
41              99  Conditioning Radiothearpy for BMT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      298  Arthrotomy Hip joint
42  100  Extracorporeal Irradiation to the Homolog...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         299  Syme's amputation
43                          101  Radical chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300  Arthroplasty
44                      102  Neoadjuvant radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    301  Partial removal of rib

Table 24:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r103  LDR Brachytherapy302  Treatment of sesamoid bone fracture\r104  Palliative Radiotherapy303  Shoulder arthroscopy / surgery\r105  Radical Radiotherapy304  Elbow arthroscopy\r106  Palliative chemotherapy305  Amputation of metacarpal bone\r107  Template Brachytherapy306  Release of thumb contracture\r108  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy307  Incision of foot fascia\r109  Adjuvant chemotherapy308  calcaneum spur hydrocort injection\r110  Induction chemotherapy309  Ganglion wrist hyalase injection\r111  Consolidation chemotherapy310  Partial removal of metatarsal\r112  Maintenance chemotherapy311  Repair / graft of foot tendon\r113  HDR Brachytherapy312  Revision/Removal of Knee cap\rPlastic Surgery313  Amputation follow-up surgery\r114  Construction skin pedicle flap314  Exploration of ankle joint\r115  Gluteal pressure ulcer-Excision315  Remove/graft leg bone lesion\r116  Muscle-skin graft, leg316  Repair/graft achilles tendon\r117  Removal of bone for graft317  Remove of tissue expander\r118  Muscle-skin graft duct fistula318  Biopsy elbow joint lining\r119  Removal cartilage graft319  Removal of wrist prosthesis\r120  Myocutaneous flap320  Biopsy finger joint lining\r121  Fibro myocutaneous flap321  Tendon lengthening\r122  Breast reconstruction surgery after\r322  Treatment of shoulder dislocation\rmastectomy\r123  Sling operation  for facial palsy323  Lengthening of hand tendon\r124   Split Skin Grafting under RA324  Removal of elbow bursa\r125  Wolfe skin graft325  Fixation of knee joint\r126  Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth under\r326  Treatment of foot dislocation\rGA\rUrology327  Surgery of bunion\r127  AV fistula - wrist328  intra articular steroid injection\r128  URSL with stenting329  Tendon transfer procedure\r129  URSL with lithotripsy330  Removal of knee cap bursa\r130   CystoscopicLitholapaxy331  Treatment of fracture of ulna\r131   ESWL332  Treatment of scapula fracture\r132  Haemodialysis333   Removal of  tumor of arm/ elbow under RA/GA\r133  Bladder Neck Incision334  Repair of ruptured tendon\r134   Cystoscopy & Biopsy335  Decompress forearm space\r135  Cystoscopy and removal of polyp336  Revision of neck muscle ( Torticollis release )\r136  Suprapubiccystostomy337  Lengthening of thigh tendons\r137  percutaneous nephrostomy338  Treatment fracture of radius & ulna\r139  Cystoscopy and "SLING" procedure.339  Repair of knee joint Paediatric surgery\r140  TUNA- prostate340   Excision Juvenile  polyps rectum\r141   Excision of urethral diverticulum341   Vaginoplasty\r342   Dilatation of accidental caustic stricture\r142   Removal of urethral Stone\roesophageal\r143   Excision of urethral prolapse343   PresacralTeratomas Excision\r144   Mega-ureter reconstruction344   Removal of vesical stone\r145  Kidney renoscopy  and biopsy345   Excision Sigmoid Polyp                                         Unnamed: 0
0                              103  LDR Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                302  Treatment of sesamoid bone fracture
1                        104  Palliative Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     303  Shoulder arthroscopy / surgery
2                           105  Radical Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  304  Elbow arthroscopy
3                        106  Palliative chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      305  Amputation of metacarpal bone
4                         107  Template Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       306  Release of thumb contracture
5                       108  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            307  Incision of foot fascia
6                          109  Adjuvant chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 308  calcaneum spur hydrocort injection
7                         110  Induction chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   309  Ganglion wrist hyalase injection
8                     111  Consolidation chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      310  Partial removal of metatarsal
9                       112  Maintenance chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      311  Repair / graft of foot tendon
10                             113  HDR Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       312  Revision/Removal of Knee cap
11                                    Plastic Surgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       313  Amputation follow-up surgery
12                114  Construction skin pedicle flap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         314  Exploration of ankle joint
13               115  Gluteal pressure ulcer-Excision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       315  Remove/graft leg bone lesion
14                        116  Muscle-skin graft, leg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       316  Repair/graft achilles tendon
15                     117  Removal of bone for graft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          317  Remove of tissue expander
16                118  Muscle-skin graft duct fistula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          318  Biopsy elbow joint lining
17                       119  Removal cartilage graft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        319  Removal of wrist prosthesis
18                             120  Myocutaneous flap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         320  Biopsy finger joint lining
19                       121  Fibro myocutaneous flap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 321  Tendon lengthening
20  122  Breast reconstruction surgery after\rmast...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  322  Treatment of shoulder dislocation
21             123  Sling operation  for facial palsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         323  Lengthening of hand tendon
22                 124   Split Skin Grafting under RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             324  Removal of elbow bursa
23                              125  Wolfe skin graft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             325  Fixation of knee joint
24  126  Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      326  Treatment of foot dislocation
25                                            Urology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  327  Surgery of bunion
26                            127  AV fistula - wrist                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  328  intra articular steroid injection
27                            128  URSL with stenting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          329  Tendon transfer procedure
28                         129  URSL with lithotripsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          330  Removal of knee cap bursa
29                       130   CystoscopicLitholapaxy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      331  Treatment of fracture of ulna
30                                         131   ESWL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      332  Treatment of scapula fracture
31                                 132  Haemodialysis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       333   Removal of  tumor of arm/ elbow under RA/GA
32                         133  Bladder Neck Incision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          334  Repair of ruptured tendon
33                          134   Cystoscopy & Biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           335  Decompress forearm space
34               135  Cystoscopy and removal of polyp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       336  Revision of neck muscle ( Torticollis rel...
35                          136  Suprapubiccystostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       337  Lengthening of thigh tendons
36                      137  percutaneous nephrostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                338  Treatment fracture of radius & ulna
37             139  Cystoscopy and "SLING" procedure.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            339  Repair of knee joint Paediatric surgery
38                                140  TUNA- prostate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  340   Excision Juvenile  polyps rectum
39            141   Excision of urethral diverticulum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      341   Vaginoplasty
40                    142   Removal of urethral Stone                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       342   Dilatation of accidental caustic strictu...
41                143   Excision of urethral prolapse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       343   PresacralTeratomas Excision
42                   144   Mega-ureter reconstruction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          344   Removal of vesical stone
43                  145  Kidney renoscopy  and biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            345   Excision Sigmoid Polyp

Table 25:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r103  LDR Brachytherapy302  Treatment of sesamoid bone fracture\r104  Palliative Radiotherapy303  Shoulder arthroscopy / surgery\r105  Radical Radiotherapy304  Elbow arthroscopy\r106  Palliative chemotherapy305  Amputation of metacarpal bone\r107  Template Brachytherapy306  Release of thumb contracture\r108  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy307  Incision of foot fascia\r109  Adjuvant chemotherapy308  calcaneum spur hydrocort injection\r110  Induction chemotherapy309  Ganglion wrist hyalase injection\r111  Consolidation chemotherapy310  Partial removal of metatarsal\r112  Maintenance chemotherapy311  Repair / graft of foot tendon\r113  HDR Brachytherapy312  Revision/Removal of Knee cap\rPlastic Surgery313  Amputation follow-up surgery\r114  Construction skin pedicle flap314  Exploration of ankle joint\r115  Gluteal pressure ulcer-Excision315  Remove/graft leg bone lesion\r116  Muscle-skin graft, leg316  Repair/graft achilles tendon\r117  Removal of bone for graft317  Remove of tissue expander\r118  Muscle-skin graft duct fistula318  Biopsy elbow joint lining\r119  Removal cartilage graft319  Removal of wrist prosthesis\r120  Myocutaneous flap320  Biopsy finger joint lining\r121  Fibro myocutaneous flap321  Tendon lengthening\r122  Breast reconstruction surgery after\r322  Treatment of shoulder dislocation\rmastectomy\r123  Sling operation  for facial palsy323  Lengthening of hand tendon\r124   Split Skin Grafting under RA324  Removal of elbow bursa\r125  Wolfe skin graft325  Fixation of knee joint\r126  Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth under\r326  Treatment of foot dislocation\rGA\rUrology327  Surgery of bunion\r127  AV fistula - wrist328  intra articular steroid injection\r128  URSL with stenting329  Tendon transfer procedure\r129  URSL with lithotripsy330  Removal of knee cap bursa\r130   CystoscopicLitholapaxy331  Treatment of fracture of ulna\r131   ESWL332  Treatment of scapula fracture\r132  Haemodialysis333   Removal of  tumor of arm/ elbow under RA/GA\r133  Bladder Neck Incision334  Repair of ruptured tendon\r134   Cystoscopy & Biopsy335  Decompress forearm space\r135  Cystoscopy and removal of polyp336  Revision of neck muscle ( Torticollis release )\r136  Suprapubiccystostomy337  Lengthening of thigh tendons\r137  percutaneous nephrostomy338  Treatment fracture of radius & ulna\r139  Cystoscopy and "SLING" procedure.339  Repair of knee joint Paediatric surgery\r140  TUNA- prostate340   Excision Juvenile  polyps rectum\r141   Excision of urethral diverticulum341   Vaginoplasty\r342   Dilatation of accidental caustic stricture\r142   Removal of urethral Stone\roesophageal\r143   Excision of urethral prolapse343   PresacralTeratomas Excision\r144   Mega-ureter reconstruction344   Removal of vesical stone\r145  Kidney renoscopy  and biopsy345   Excision Sigmoid Polyp                                         Unnamed: 0
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NaN
1                              103  LDR Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                302  Treatment of sesamoid bone fracture
2                        104  Palliative Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     303  Shoulder arthroscopy / surgery
3                           105  Radical Radiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  304  Elbow arthroscopy
4                        106  Palliative chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      305  Amputation of metacarpal bone
5                         107  Template Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       306  Release of thumb contracture
6                       108  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            307  Incision of foot fascia
7                          109  Adjuvant chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 308  calcaneum spur hydrocort injection
8                         110  Induction chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   309  Ganglion wrist hyalase injection
9                     111  Consolidation chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      310  Partial removal of metatarsal
10                      112  Maintenance chemotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      311  Repair / graft of foot tendon
11                             113  HDR Brachytherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       312  Revision/Removal of Knee cap
12                                    Plastic Surgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       313  Amputation follow-up surgery
13                114  Construction skin pedicle flap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         314  Exploration of ankle joint
14               115  Gluteal pressure ulcer-Excision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       315  Remove/graft leg bone lesion
15                        116  Muscle-skin graft, leg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       316  Repair/graft achilles tendon
16                     117  Removal of bone for graft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          317  Remove of tissue expander
17                118  Muscle-skin graft duct fistula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          318  Biopsy elbow joint lining
18                       119  Removal cartilage graft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        319  Removal of wrist prosthesis
19                             120  Myocutaneous flap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         320  Biopsy finger joint lining
20                       121  Fibro myocutaneous flap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 321  Tendon lengthening
21  122  Breast reconstruction surgery after\rmast...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  322  Treatment of shoulder dislocation
22             123  Sling operation  for facial palsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         323  Lengthening of hand tendon
23                 124   Split Skin Grafting under RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             324  Removal of elbow bursa
24                              125  Wolfe skin graft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             325  Fixation of knee joint
25  126  Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      326  Treatment of foot dislocation
26                                            Urology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  327  Surgery of bunion
27                            127  AV fistula - wrist                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  328  intra articular steroid injection
28                            128  URSL with stenting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          329  Tendon transfer procedure
29                         129  URSL with lithotripsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          330  Removal of knee cap bursa
30                       130   CystoscopicLitholapaxy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      331  Treatment of fracture of ulna
31                                         131   ESWL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      332  Treatment of scapula fracture
32                                 132  Haemodialysis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       333   Removal of  tumor of arm/ elbow under RA/GA
33                         133  Bladder Neck Incision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          334  Repair of ruptured tendon
34                          134   Cystoscopy & Biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           335  Decompress forearm space
35               135  Cystoscopy and removal of polyp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       336  Revision of neck muscle ( Torticollis rel...
36                          136  Suprapubiccystostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       337  Lengthening of thigh tendons
37                      137  percutaneous nephrostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                338  Treatment fracture of radius & ulna
38             139  Cystoscopy and "SLING" procedure.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            339  Repair of knee joint Paediatric surgery
39                                140  TUNA- prostate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  340   Excision Juvenile  polyps rectum
40            141   Excision of urethral diverticulum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      341   Vaginoplasty
41                    142   Removal of urethral Stone                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       342   Dilatation of accidental caustic strictu...
42                143   Excision of urethral prolapse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       343   PresacralTeratomas Excision
43                   144   Mega-ureter reconstruction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          344   Removal of vesical stone
44                  145  Kidney renoscopy  and biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            345   Excision Sigmoid Polyp

Table 26:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r146  Ureter endoscopy and treatment346   SternomastoidTenotomy\r347   Infantile Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis\r147  Vesico ureteric reflux correction\rpyloromyotomy\r148  Surgery for pelvi ureteric junction obstruction348   Excision of soft tissue rhabdomyosarcoma\r149  Anderson hynes operation349   Mediastinal lymph node biopsy\r150  Kidney endoscopy and biopsy350   High Orchidectomy for testis tumours\r151  Paraphimosis surgery351  Excision of cervical teratoma\r152  Injury prepuce- circumcision352   Rectal-Myomectomy\r153  Frenular tear repair353  Rectal prolapse  (Delorme's procedure)\r154  Meatotomy for meatal stenosis354   Orchidopexy for undescended testis\r155  surgery for fournier's gangrene scrotum355   Detorsion of torsion Testis\r156  surgery filarial scrotum356  lap.Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism\r157  surgery for watering can perineum357  EUA + biopsy multiple fistula in ano\r158  Repair of penile torsion358  Cystic hygroma - Injection treatment\r159  Drainage of prostate abscess359   Excision of fistula-in-ano\r160  Orchiectomy\rGynaecology\r161  Cystoscopy and removal of FB360  Hysteroscopic removal of myoma\rNeurology361  D&C\r162  Facial nerve physiotherapy362  Hysteroscopic resection of septum\r163  Nerve biopsy363  thermal Cauterisation of Cervix\r164  Muscle biopsy364  MIRENA insertion\r165  Epidural steroid injection365  Hysteroscopicadhesiolysis\r166  Glycerol rhizotomy366  LEEP\r167  Spinal cord stimulation367  Cryocauterisation of Cervix\r168  Motor cortex stimulation368  Polypectomy Endometrium\r169  Stereotactic Radiosurgery369  Hysteroscopic resection of fibroid\r170  Percutaneous Cordotomy370  LLETZ\r171  Intrathecal Baclofen therapy371  Conization\r172  Entrapment neuropathy Release372  polypectomy cervix\r173  Diagnostic cerebral angiography373  Hysteroscopic resection of endometrial polyp\r174  VP shunt374  Vulval wart excision\r175  Ventriculoatrial shunt375  Laparoscopic paraovarian cyst excision\rThoracic surgery376  uterine artery embolization\r176   Thoracoscopy and Lung Biopsy377  Bartholin Cyst excision\r177   Excision of cervical sympathetic Chain\r378  Laparoscopic cystectomy\rThoracoscopic\r178   Laser Ablation of Barrett's oesophagus379  Hymenectomy( imperforate Hymen)\r179   Pleurodesis380  Endometrial ablation\r180   Thoracoscopy and pleural biopsy381  vaginal wall cyst excision\r181  EBUS + Biopsy382  Vulval cyst Excision\r182   Thoracoscopy  ligation thoracic duct383  Laparoscopic paratubal cyst  excision\r183  Thoracoscopy assisted empyaema drainage384  Repair of vagina ( vaginal atresia )\rGastroenterology385  Hysteroscopy, removal of myoma\r184  Pancreatic pseudocyst EUS & drainage386  TURBT\r185  RF ablation for barrett'sOesophagus387  Ureterocoele repair - congenital internal\r186  ERCP and papillotomy388  Vaginal mesh For POP\r187  Esophagoscope and sclerosant injection389  Laparoscopic Myomectomy                                         Unnamed: 0
0                 146  Ureter endoscopy and treatment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      346   SternomastoidTenotomy
1              147  Vesico ureteric reflux correction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                347   Infantile Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis\...
2   148  Surgery for pelvi ureteric junction obstr...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   348   Excision of soft tissue rhabdomyosarcoma
3                       149  Anderson hynes operation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              349   Mediastinal lymph node biopsy
4                    150  Kidney endoscopy and biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       350   High Orchidectomy for testis tumours
5                           151  Paraphimosis surgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               351  Excision of cervical teratoma
6                   152  Injury prepuce- circumcision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          352   Rectal-Myomectomy
7                           153  Frenular tear repair                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      353  Rectal prolapse  (Delorme's procedure)
8                  154  Meatotomy for meatal stenosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         354   Orchidopexy for undescended testis
9        155  surgery for fournier's gangrene scrotum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                355   Detorsion of torsion Testis
10                      156  surgery filarial scrotum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 356  lap.Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism
11             157  surgery for watering can perineum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        357  EUA + biopsy multiple fistula in ano
12                      158  Repair of penile torsion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        358  Cystic hygroma - Injection treatment
13                  159  Drainage of prostate abscess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 359   Excision of fistula-in-ano
14                                   160  Orchiectomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gynaecology
15                  161  Cystoscopy and removal of FB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              360  Hysteroscopic removal of myoma
16                                          Neurology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         361  D&C
17                    162  Facial nerve physiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           362  Hysteroscopic resection of septum
18                                  163  Nerve biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             363  thermal Cauterisation of Cervix
19                                 164  Muscle biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            364  MIRENA insertion
20                    165  Epidural steroid injection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   365  Hysteroscopicadhesiolysis
21                            166  Glycerol rhizotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        366  LEEP
22                       167  Spinal cord stimulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 367  Cryocauterisation of Cervix
23                      168  Motor cortex stimulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     368  Polypectomy Endometrium
24                     169  Stereotactic Radiosurgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          369  Hysteroscopic resection of fibroid
25                        170  Percutaneous Cordotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       370  LLETZ
26                  171  Intrathecal Baclofen therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  371  Conization
27                 172  Entrapment neuropathy Release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          372  polypectomy cervix
28               173  Diagnostic cerebral angiography                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                373  Hysteroscopic resection of endometrial polyp
29                                      174  VP shunt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        374  Vulval wart excision
30                        175  Ventriculoatrial shunt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      375  Laparoscopic paraovarian cyst excision
31                                   Thoracic surgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 376  uterine artery embolization
32                 176   Thoracoscopy and Lung Biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     377  Bartholin Cyst excision
33  177   Excision of cervical sympathetic Chain\r...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     378  Laparoscopic cystectomy
34       178   Laser Ablation of Barrett's oesophagus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             379  Hymenectomy( imperforate Hymen)
35                                  179   Pleurodesis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        380  Endometrial ablation
36              180   Thoracoscopy and pleural biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  381  vaginal wall cyst excision
37                                 181  EBUS + Biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        382  Vulval cyst Excision
38         182   Thoracoscopy  ligation thoracic duct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       383  Laparoscopic paratubal cyst  excision
39       183  Thoracoscopy assisted empyaema drainage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        384  Repair of vagina ( vaginal atresia )
40                                   Gastroenterology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              385  Hysteroscopy, removal of myoma
41          184  Pancreatic pseudocyst EUS & drainage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       386  TURBT
42           185  RF ablation for barrett'sOesophagus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   387  Ureterocoele repair - congenital internal
43                          186  ERCP and papillotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        388  Vaginal mesh For POP
44        187  Esophagoscope and sclerosant injection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     389  Laparoscopic Myomectomy

Table 27:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r146  Ureter endoscopy and treatment346   SternomastoidTenotomy\r347   Infantile Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis\r147  Vesico ureteric reflux correction\rpyloromyotomy\r148  Surgery for pelvi ureteric junction obstruction348   Excision of soft tissue rhabdomyosarcoma\r149  Anderson hynes operation349   Mediastinal lymph node biopsy\r150  Kidney endoscopy and biopsy350   High Orchidectomy for testis tumours\r151  Paraphimosis surgery351  Excision of cervical teratoma\r152  Injury prepuce- circumcision352   Rectal-Myomectomy\r153  Frenular tear repair353  Rectal prolapse  (Delorme's procedure)\r154  Meatotomy for meatal stenosis354   Orchidopexy for undescended testis\r155  surgery for fournier's gangrene scrotum355   Detorsion of torsion Testis\r156  surgery filarial scrotum356  lap.Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism\r157  surgery for watering can perineum357  EUA + biopsy multiple fistula in ano\r158  Repair of penile torsion358  Cystic hygroma - Injection treatment\r159  Drainage of prostate abscess359   Excision of fistula-in-ano\r160  Orchiectomy\rGynaecology\r161  Cystoscopy and removal of FB360  Hysteroscopic removal of myoma\rNeurology361  D&C\r162  Facial nerve physiotherapy362  Hysteroscopic resection of septum\r163  Nerve biopsy363  thermal Cauterisation of Cervix\r164  Muscle biopsy364  MIRENA insertion\r165  Epidural steroid injection365  Hysteroscopicadhesiolysis\r166  Glycerol rhizotomy366  LEEP\r167  Spinal cord stimulation367  Cryocauterisation of Cervix\r168  Motor cortex stimulation368  Polypectomy Endometrium\r169  Stereotactic Radiosurgery369  Hysteroscopic resection of fibroid\r170  Percutaneous Cordotomy370  LLETZ\r171  Intrathecal Baclofen therapy371  Conization\r172  Entrapment neuropathy Release372  polypectomy cervix\r173  Diagnostic cerebral angiography373  Hysteroscopic resection of endometrial polyp\r174  VP shunt374  Vulval wart excision\r175  Ventriculoatrial shunt375  Laparoscopic paraovarian cyst excision\rThoracic surgery376  uterine artery embolization\r176   Thoracoscopy and Lung Biopsy377  Bartholin Cyst excision\r177   Excision of cervical sympathetic Chain\r378  Laparoscopic cystectomy\rThoracoscopic\r178   Laser Ablation of Barrett's oesophagus379  Hymenectomy( imperforate Hymen)\r179   Pleurodesis380  Endometrial ablation\r180   Thoracoscopy and pleural biopsy381  vaginal wall cyst excision\r181  EBUS + Biopsy382  Vulval cyst Excision\r182   Thoracoscopy  ligation thoracic duct383  Laparoscopic paratubal cyst  excision\r183  Thoracoscopy assisted empyaema drainage384  Repair of vagina ( vaginal atresia )\rGastroenterology385  Hysteroscopy, removal of myoma\r184  Pancreatic pseudocyst EUS & drainage386  TURBT\r185  RF ablation for barrett'sOesophagus387  Ureterocoele repair - congenital internal\r186  ERCP and papillotomy388  Vaginal mesh For POP\r187  Esophagoscope and sclerosant injection389  Laparoscopic Myomectomy                                         Unnamed: 0
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NaN
1                 146  Ureter endoscopy and treatment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      346   SternomastoidTenotomy
2              147  Vesico ureteric reflux correction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                347   Infantile Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis\...
3   148  Surgery for pelvi ureteric junction obstr...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   348   Excision of soft tissue rhabdomyosarcoma
4                       149  Anderson hynes operation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              349   Mediastinal lymph node biopsy
5                    150  Kidney endoscopy and biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       350   High Orchidectomy for testis tumours
6                           151  Paraphimosis surgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               351  Excision of cervical teratoma
7                   152  Injury prepuce- circumcision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          352   Rectal-Myomectomy
8                           153  Frenular tear repair                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      353  Rectal prolapse  (Delorme's procedure)
9                  154  Meatotomy for meatal stenosis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         354   Orchidopexy for undescended testis
10       155  surgery for fournier's gangrene scrotum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                355   Detorsion of torsion Testis
11                      156  surgery filarial scrotum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 356  lap.Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism
12             157  surgery for watering can perineum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        357  EUA + biopsy multiple fistula in ano
13                      158  Repair of penile torsion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        358  Cystic hygroma - Injection treatment
14                  159  Drainage of prostate abscess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 359   Excision of fistula-in-ano
15                                   160  Orchiectomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gynaecology
16                  161  Cystoscopy and removal of FB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              360  Hysteroscopic removal of myoma
17                                          Neurology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         361  D&C
18                    162  Facial nerve physiotherapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           362  Hysteroscopic resection of septum
19                                  163  Nerve biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             363  thermal Cauterisation of Cervix
20                                 164  Muscle biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            364  MIRENA insertion
21                    165  Epidural steroid injection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   365  Hysteroscopicadhesiolysis
22                            166  Glycerol rhizotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        366  LEEP
23                       167  Spinal cord stimulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 367  Cryocauterisation of Cervix
24                      168  Motor cortex stimulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     368  Polypectomy Endometrium
25                     169  Stereotactic Radiosurgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          369  Hysteroscopic resection of fibroid
26                        170  Percutaneous Cordotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       370  LLETZ
27                  171  Intrathecal Baclofen therapy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  371  Conization
28                 172  Entrapment neuropathy Release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          372  polypectomy cervix
29               173  Diagnostic cerebral angiography                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                373  Hysteroscopic resection of endometrial polyp
30                                      174  VP shunt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        374  Vulval wart excision
31                        175  Ventriculoatrial shunt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      375  Laparoscopic paraovarian cyst excision
32                                   Thoracic surgery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 376  uterine artery embolization
33                 176   Thoracoscopy and Lung Biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     377  Bartholin Cyst excision
34  177   Excision of cervical sympathetic Chain\r...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     378  Laparoscopic cystectomy
35       178   Laser Ablation of Barrett's oesophagus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             379  Hymenectomy( imperforate Hymen)
36                                  179   Pleurodesis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        380  Endometrial ablation
37              180   Thoracoscopy and pleural biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  381  vaginal wall cyst excision
38                                 181  EBUS + Biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        382  Vulval cyst Excision
39         182   Thoracoscopy  ligation thoracic duct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       383  Laparoscopic paratubal cyst  excision
40       183  Thoracoscopy assisted empyaema drainage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        384  Repair of vagina ( vaginal atresia )
41                                   Gastroenterology                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              385  Hysteroscopy, removal of myoma
42          184  Pancreatic pseudocyst EUS & drainage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       386  TURBT
43           185  RF ablation for barrett'sOesophagus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   387  Ureterocoele repair - congenital internal
44                          186  ERCP and papillotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        388  Vaginal mesh For POP
45        187  Esophagoscope and sclerosant injection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     389  Laparoscopic Myomectomy

Table 28:
  ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r188  EUS  + submucosal resection390  Surgery for SUI\r189  Construction of gastrostomy tube391  Repair recto- vagina fistula\r190  EUS +  aspiration pancreatic cyst392  Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula repair)\r191  Small bowel endoscopy (therapeutic)393  URS + LL\r192  Colonoscopy ,lesion removal394  Laparoscopic oophorectomy\r193  ERCP\rCritical care\r194  Colonscopy stenting of stricture395  Insert non- tunnel CV cath\r396  Insert PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r195  Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy\rcatheter )\r397  Replace PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r196  EUS and pancreatic pseudo cyst drainage\rcatheter )\r197  ERCP and choledochoscopy398  Insertion catheter, intra anterior\r198  Proctosigmoidoscopy volvulus detorsion399  Insertion of Portacath\r199  ERCP and sphincterotomy\r200  Esophageal stent placement\r201  ERCP + placement of biliary stents\r\r202  Sigmoidoscopy w / stent\r203 US + coeliac node biopsy\r\r\ri) The standard exclusions and waiting periods are applicable to all of the above procedures depending on the\rmedical condition/disease under treatment. Only 24 hours Hospitalization is not mandatory.\r\r\r\rAnnexure II:-\r\rList I: List of Non-Medical Items\r\rLIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE\r1BABY FOOD\r2BABY UTILITIES CHARGES\r3BEAUTY SERV ICES\r4BUDS\r5CARRY BAGS\r6EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES\r7FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITA L)\r8LAUNDRY CHARGES\r9MINERAL WATER\r10SANITARY PAD\r11TELEPHONE CHARGES\r12GUEST SERVICES\r13DIAPER OF ANY TYPE\r14TELEVISION CHARGES\r15EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)\r16BIRTH CERTIFICATE\r17CERTIFICATE CHARGES\r18COURIER CHARGES\r19MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
0              LIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
1              LIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

Table 29:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r188  EUS  + submucosal resection390  Surgery for SUI\r189  Construction of gastrostomy tube391  Repair recto- vagina fistula\r190  EUS +  aspiration pancreatic cyst392  Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula repair)\r191  Small bowel endoscopy (therapeutic)393  URS + LL\r192  Colonoscopy ,lesion removal394  Laparoscopic oophorectomy\r193  ERCP\rCritical care\r194  Colonscopy stenting of stricture395  Insert non- tunnel CV cath\r396  Insert PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r195  Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy\rcatheter )\r397  Replace PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r196  EUS and pancreatic pseudo cyst drainage\rcatheter )\r197  ERCP and choledochoscopy398  Insertion catheter, intra anterior\r198  Proctosigmoidoscopy volvulus detorsion399  Insertion of Portacath\r199  ERCP and sphincterotomy\r200  Esophageal stent placement\r201  ERCP + placement of biliary stents\r\r202  Sigmoidoscopy w / stent\r203 US + coeliac node biopsy\r\r\ri) The standard exclusions and waiting periods are applicable to all of the above procedures depending on the\rmedical condition/disease under treatment. Only 24 hours Hospitalization is not mandatory.\r\r\r\rAnnexure II:-\r\rList I: List of Non-Medical Items\r\rLIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE\r1BABY FOOD\r2BABY UTILITIES CHARGES\r3BEAUTY SERV ICES\r4BUDS\r5CARRY BAGS\r6EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES\r7FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITA L)\r8LAUNDRY CHARGES\r9MINERAL WATER\r10SANITARY PAD\r11TELEPHONE CHARGES\r12GUEST SERVICES\r13DIAPER OF ANY TYPE\r14TELEVISION CHARGES\r15EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)\r16BIRTH CERTIFICATE\r17CERTIFICATE CHARGES\r18COURIER CHARGES\r19MEDICAL CERTIFICATE                                         Unnamed: 0
0               LIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
1               LIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
2                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BABY FOOD
3                                                   2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
4                                                   3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BEAUTY SERV ICES
5                                                   4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUDS
6                                                   5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CARRY BAGS
7                                                   6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES
8                                                   7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVID...
9                                                   8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LAUNDRY CHARGES
10                                                  9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MINERAL WATER
11                                                 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANITARY PAD
12                                                 11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TELEPHONE CHARGES
13                                                 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUEST SERVICES
14                                                 13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
15                                                 14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TELEVISION CHARGES
16                                                 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH F...
17                                                 16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BIRTH CERTIFICATE
18                                                 17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CERTIFICATE CHARGES
19                                                 18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COURIER CHARGES
20                                                 19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MEDICAL CERTIFICATE

Table 30:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r188  EUS  + submucosal resection390  Surgery for SUI\r189  Construction of gastrostomy tube391  Repair recto- vagina fistula\r190  EUS +  aspiration pancreatic cyst392  Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula repair)\r191  Small bowel endoscopy (therapeutic)393  URS + LL\r192  Colonoscopy ,lesion removal394  Laparoscopic oophorectomy\r193  ERCP\rCritical care\r194  Colonscopy stenting of stricture395  Insert non- tunnel CV cath\r396  Insert PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r195  Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy\rcatheter )\r397  Replace PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r196  EUS and pancreatic pseudo cyst drainage\rcatheter )\r197  ERCP and choledochoscopy398  Insertion catheter, intra anterior\r198  Proctosigmoidoscopy volvulus detorsion399  Insertion of Portacath\r199  ERCP and sphincterotomy\r200  Esophageal stent placement\r201  ERCP + placement of biliary stents\r\r202  Sigmoidoscopy w / stent\r203 US + coeliac node biopsy\r\r\ri) The standard exclusions and waiting periods are applicable to all of the above procedures depending on the\rmedical condition/disease under treatment. Only 24 hours Hospitalization is not mandatory.\r\r\r\rAnnexure II:-\r\rList I: List of Non-Medical Items\r\rLIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE\r1BABY FOOD\r2BABY UTILITIES CHARGES\r3BEAUTY SERV ICES\r4BUDS\r5CARRY BAGS\r6EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES\r7FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITA L)\r8LAUNDRY CHARGES\r9MINERAL WATER\r10SANITARY PAD\r11TELEPHONE CHARGES\r12GUEST SERVICES\r13DIAPER OF ANY TYPE\r14TELEVISION CHARGES\r15EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)\r16BIRTH CERTIFICATE\r17CERTIFICATE CHARGES\r18COURIER CHARGES\r19MEDICAL CERTIFICATE                                         Unnamed: 0
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
1                    188  EUS  + submucosal resection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               390  Surgery for SUI
2               189  Construction of gastrostomy tube                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  391  Repair recto- vagina fistula
3              190  EUS +  aspiration pancreatic cyst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  392  Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula re...
4            191  Small bowel endoscopy (therapeutic)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      393  URS + LL
5                    192  Colonoscopy ,lesion removal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     394  Laparoscopic oophorectomy
6                                           193  ERCP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Critical care
7               194  Colonscopy stenting of stricture                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    395  Insert non- tunnel CV cath
8            195  Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  396  Insert PICC cath ( peripherally inserted ...
9        196  EUS and pancreatic pseudo cyst drainage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  397  Replace PICC cath ( peripherally inserted...
10                      197  ERCP and choledochoscopy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            398  Insertion catheter, intra anterior
11        198  Proctosigmoidoscopy volvulus detorsion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        399  Insertion of Portacath
12                       199  ERCP and sphincterotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
13                    200  Esophageal stent placement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
14            201  ERCP + placement of biliary stents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
15                       202  Sigmoidoscopy w / stent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
16                       203 US + coeliac node biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
17              LIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
18              LIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
19                                                  1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BABY FOOD
20                                                  2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
21                                                  3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BEAUTY SERV ICES
22                                                  4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUDS
23                                                  5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CARRY BAGS
24                                                  6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES
25                                                  7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVID...
26                                                  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LAUNDRY CHARGES
27                                                  9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MINERAL WATER
28                                                 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANITARY PAD
29                                                 11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TELEPHONE CHARGES
30                                                 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUEST SERVICES
31                                                 13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
32                                                 14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TELEVISION CHARGES
33                                                 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH F...
34                                                 16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BIRTH CERTIFICATE
35                                                 17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CERTIFICATE CHARGES
36                                                 18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COURIER CHARGES
37                                                 19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MEDICAL CERTIFICATE

Table 31:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r188  EUS  + submucosal resection390  Surgery for SUI\r189  Construction of gastrostomy tube391  Repair recto- vagina fistula\r190  EUS +  aspiration pancreatic cyst392  Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula repair)\r191  Small bowel endoscopy (therapeutic)393  URS + LL\r192  Colonoscopy ,lesion removal394  Laparoscopic oophorectomy\r193  ERCP\rCritical care\r194  Colonscopy stenting of stricture395  Insert non- tunnel CV cath\r396  Insert PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r195  Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy\rcatheter )\r397  Replace PICC cath ( peripherally inserted central\r196  EUS and pancreatic pseudo cyst drainage\rcatheter )\r197  ERCP and choledochoscopy398  Insertion catheter, intra anterior\r198  Proctosigmoidoscopy volvulus detorsion399  Insertion of Portacath\r199  ERCP and sphincterotomy\r200  Esophageal stent placement\r201  ERCP + placement of biliary stents\r\r202  Sigmoidoscopy w / stent\r203 US + coeliac node biopsy\r\r\ri) The standard exclusions and waiting periods are applicable to all of the above procedures depending on the\rmedical condition/disease under treatment. Only 24 hours Hospitalization is not mandatory.\r\r\r\rAnnexure II:-\r\rList I: List of Non-Medical Items\r\rLIST OF NON-MEDICAL ITEMS NOT PAYABLE\r1BABY FOOD\r2BABY UTILITIES CHARGES\r3BEAUTY SERV ICES\r4BUDS\r5CARRY BAGS\r6EMAIL I INTERNET CHARGES\r7FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITA L)\r8LAUNDRY CHARGES\r9MINERAL WATER\r10SANITARY PAD\r11TELEPHONE CHARGES\r12GUEST SERVICES\r13DIAPER OF ANY TYPE\r14TELEVISION CHARGES\r15EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)\r16BIRTH CERTIFICATE\r17CERTIFICATE CHARGES\r18COURIER CHARGES\r19MEDICAL CERTIFICATE                                         Unnamed: 0
0                    188  EUS  + submucosal resection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               390  Surgery for SUI
1               189  Construction of gastrostomy tube                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  391  Repair recto- vagina fistula
2              190  EUS +  aspiration pancreatic cyst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  392  Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula re...
3            191  Small bowel endoscopy (therapeutic)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      393  URS + LL
4                    192  Colonoscopy ,lesion removal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     394  Laparoscopic oophorectomy
5                                           193  ERCP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Critical care
6               194  Colonscopy stenting of stricture                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    395  Insert non- tunnel CV cath
7            195  Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  396  Insert PICC cath ( peripherally inserted ...
8        196  EUS and pancreatic pseudo cyst drainage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  397  Replace PICC cath ( peripherally inserted...
9                       197  ERCP and choledochoscopy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            398  Insertion catheter, intra anterior
10        198  Proctosigmoidoscopy volvulus detorsion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        399  Insertion of Portacath
11                       199  ERCP and sphincterotomy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
12                    200  Esophageal stent placement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
13            201  ERCP + placement of biliary stents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
14                       202  Sigmoidoscopy w / stent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN
15                       203 US + coeliac node biopsy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NaN

Table 32:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r20MEDICAL RECORDS\r21PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES\r22SUGAR FREE Tablets\r23CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)\r24CONVEYANCE CHARGES\r25DIABETIC FOOT WEAR\r26PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES\r27A\rTTENDANT CHARGES\r\r\rAnnexure III: Indicative list of Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies\r\rA.Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU\rB.Balloon Sinuplasty\rC.Deep Brain stimulation\rD.Oral chemotherapy\rE.Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection\rF.Intra vitreal injections\rG.Robotic surgeries\rH.Stereotactic radio surgeries\rI.Bronchical Thermoplasty\rJ.Vaporisation of the  prostrate  (Green  laser  treatment  or  holmium  laser treatment)\rK.IONM -(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)\rL.Stem cell therapy:  Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to\rbe covered\r\r\rAnnexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness*\r\rICD\rDescription\rCode\rF00-F09Organic, including symptomatic, mental disorders\rF20-F29Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders\rF30-F39Mood [affective] disorders\rF40-F48Neurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders\rF50-F59Behavioural syndromes associated with physiological disturbances and physical factors\rF60-F69Disorders of adult personality and behaviour\rF80-F89Disorders of psychological development\rBehavioural and emotional disorders with onset usually occurring in childhood and\rF90-F98\radolescence\rF99Unspecified mental disorder\r\r\r*As per ICD-10 classification of Mental and Behavioral Disorders F10-F19 consist of Mental and behavioral\rdisorders due to psychoactive substance use which are not covered under "Mental Illness Treatment" and hence\rnot listed in Annexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness.  ...                                         Unnamed: 2
0                  ssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
1                                                  20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
2                                                  21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
3                                                  22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
4                                                  23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
5                                                  24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
6                                                  25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
7                                                  26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
8                                                  27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
9                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
10                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
11                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
12                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
13                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...    rganic, including symptomatic, mental disorders
14                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...  chizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disor...
15                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                          ood [affective] disorders
16                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...   eurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders
17                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...  ehavioural syndromes associated with physiolog...
18                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...        isorders of adult personality and behaviour
19                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...              isorders of psychological development
20                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
21                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
22                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
23                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                NaN
24                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                         nspecified mental disorder

[25 rows x 4 columns]

Table 33:
    ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r20MEDICAL RECORDS\r21PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES\r22SUGAR FREE Tablets\r23CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)\r24CONVEYANCE CHARGES\r25DIABETIC FOOT WEAR\r26PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES\r27A\rTTENDANT CHARGES\r\r\rAnnexure III: Indicative list of Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies\r\rA.Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU\rB.Balloon Sinuplasty\rC.Deep Brain stimulation\rD.Oral chemotherapy\rE.Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection\rF.Intra vitreal injections\rG.Robotic surgeries\rH.Stereotactic radio surgeries\rI.Bronchical Thermoplasty\rJ.Vaporisation of the  prostrate  (Green  laser  treatment  or  holmium  laser treatment)\rK.IONM -(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)\rL.Stem cell therapy:  Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to\rbe covered\r\r\rAnnexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness*\r\rICD\rDescription\rCode\rF00-F09Organic, including symptomatic, mental disorders\rF20-F29Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders\rF30-F39Mood [affective] disorders\rF40-F48Neurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders\rF50-F59Behavioural syndromes associated with physiological disturbances and physical factors\rF60-F69Disorders of adult personality and behaviour\rF80-F89Disorders of psychological development\rBehavioural and emotional disorders with onset usually occurring in childhood and\rF90-F98\radolescence\rF99Unspecified mental disorder\r\r\r*As per ICD-10 classification of Mental and Behavioral Disorders F10-F19 consist of Mental and behavioral\rdisorders due to psychoactive substance use which are not covered under "Mental Illness Treatment" and hence\rnot listed in Annexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness.  ...                                         Unnamed: 2
0                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
1                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
2                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
3                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
4                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...    rganic, including symptomatic, mental disorders
5                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...  chizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disor...
6                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                          ood [affective] disorders
7                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...   eurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders
8                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...  ehavioural syndromes associated with physiolog...
9                                                 NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...        isorders of adult personality and behaviour
10                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...              isorders of psychological development
11                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
12                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
13                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
14                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                                                NaN
15                                                NaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...                         nspecified mental disorder

[16 rows x 4 columns]

Table 34:
   ajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.\rajaj Allianz House, Airport Road, Yerawada, Pune - 411 006. Reg. No.: 113\ror more details, log on to: www.bajajallianz.com | E-mail: bagichelp@bajajallianz.co.in or\rall at: Sales - 1800 209 01 44 / Service - 1800 209 5858 (Toll Free No.)\rssuing Office:\rGLOBAL HEALTH CARE\r\r\r20MEDICAL RECORDS\r21PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES\r22SUGAR FREE Tablets\r23CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)\r24CONVEYANCE CHARGES\r25DIABETIC FOOT WEAR\r26PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES\r27A\rTTENDANT CHARGES\r\r\rAnnexure III: Indicative list of Modern Treatment Methods and Advancement in Technologies\r\rA.Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU\rB.Balloon Sinuplasty\rC.Deep Brain stimulation\rD.Oral chemotherapy\rE.Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection\rF.Intra vitreal injections\rG.Robotic surgeries\rH.Stereotactic radio surgeries\rI.Bronchical Thermoplasty\rJ.Vaporisation of the  prostrate  (Green  laser  treatment  or  holmium  laser treatment)\rK.IONM -(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)\rL.Stem cell therapy:  Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to\rbe covered\r\r\rAnnexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness*\r\rICD\rDescription\rCode\rF00-F09Organic, including symptomatic, mental disorders\rF20-F29Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders\rF30-F39Mood [affective] disorders\rF40-F48Neurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders\rF50-F59Behavioural syndromes associated with physiological disturbances and physical factors\rF60-F69Disorders of adult personality and behaviour\rF80-F89Disorders of psychological development\rBehavioural and emotional disorders with onset usually occurring in childhood and\rF90-F98\radolescence\rF99Unspecified mental disorder\r\r\r*As per ICD-10 classification of Mental and Behavioral Disorders F10-F19 consist of Mental and behavioral\rdisorders due to psychoactive substance use which are not covered under "Mental Illness Treatment" and hence\rnot listed in Annexure IV: ICD codes for Mental Illness.                                         Unnamed: 0
0                                                 20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MEDICAL RECORDS
1                                                 21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
2                                                 22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUGAR FREE Tablets
3                                                 23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAY...
4                                                 24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONVEYANCE CHARGES
5                                                 25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
6                                                 26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES
7                                                 27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A\rTTENDANT CHARGES

